
  +------------------------------------------+
  |                                          |
  | Transcriber's note                       |
  |                                          |
  | Minor typographical corrections silently |
  | made where the original was clearly      |
  | inconsistent. Where necessary, index     |
  | entries were corrected to the main text. |
  | The text has the note regarding the use  |
  | of iron at the base of each of pages     |
  | 85-95.                                   |
  |                                          |
  | Unicode apothecary symbols in preface    |
  | tables removed in text version (not used |
  | elsewhere in the text).                  |
  |                                          |
  | Subscripts have been represented using   |
  | curly brackets, e.g. in the chemical     |
  | formula for nitric acid, HNO{3}.         |
  |                                          |
  +------------------------------------------+




  EPITOME OF THE PHARMACOPEIA OF THE UNITED
  STATES AND THE NATIONAL FORMULARY,
  WITH COMMENTS


       *       *       *       *       *


Prepared for the Use of Physicians Under Authorization of the Council on
Pharmacy and Chemistry of the American Medical Association by a
Committee Consisting of the Following:

  A.W. Hewlett, M.D., Professor of Medicine, Leland Stanford Junior
  University.

  Torald Sollmann, M.D., Professor of Pharmacology and Materia Medica,
  Medical Department, Western Reserve University.

  M.I. Wilbert, Ph.M., Phar.D., Assistant in the Division of
  Pharmacology, Hygienic Laboratory, U.S. Public Health Service.

  W.A. Puckner, Phar.D., Secretary of the Council on Pharmacy
  and Chemistry.


       *       *       *       *       *


  AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION
  535 North Dearborn Street Chicago
  1924


[Authority to use for comment the Pharmacopeia of the United States of
America, ninth decennial revision, in this volume, has been granted by
the Board of Trustees of the United States Pharmacopeial Convention,
which Board of Trustees is in no way responsible for the accuracy of any
translations of the official weights and measures, or for any statement
as to the strength of official preparations.

Permission to use for comment parts of the National Formulary has been
granted by the Council of the American Pharmaceutical Association.]


  Copyright, 1921
  American Medical Association




PREFACE TO FIRST EDITION


The Pharmacopeia of the United States and the National Formulary are now
recognized by federal and state laws as standards for drugs and their
preparations. Physicians who prescribe Pharmacopeial or National
Formulary drugs or preparations, therefore, are more likely to obtain a
good and constant quality than if they prescribe unofficial articles,
i.e., articles that have no legalized standard. Hence medical men are
interested in knowing what drugs and preparations are included in these
two books of standards. Both the Pharmacopeia and the National
Formulary, however, contain a vast amount of technical information, of
value to pharmacists but of little interest to physicians. The Journal
of the American Medical Association in 1907 issued the "Physicians'
Manual of the U.S. Pharmacopeia and National Formulary," a book designed
to meet the needs of physicians in this respect. The fact that this book
did meet a real need is evidenced by the continued demand for it.

The present "Epitome of the U.S. Pharmacopeia and National Formulary"
takes the place of that book, but is based on the new (the ninth)
revision of the Pharmacopeia and the new (the fourth) edition of the
National Formulary. It has been prepared under the direction of a
committee appointed by the Council on Pharmacy and Chemistry of the
American Medical Association. The aim has been to include all the matter
in the Pharmacopeia and National Formulary which is likely to be of
interest to physicians. This, it is believed, consists of the official
titles and their abbreviations; synonyms; brief definitions; when
necessary, concise descriptions of the physical properties; and dosage.
Since both the Pharmacopeia and the National Formulary include many
drugs and preparations which are irrational, superfluous or worthless,
in many cases the medical members of the committee have added brief
comments to aid a discriminating selection of therapeutic agents.

In this epitome drugs are arranged alphabetically by Pharmacopeial or
National Formulary titles; preparations of drugs are placed under the
drugs themselves. Thus Tinctura Digitalis is placed not among the Ts,
but among the Ds under Digitalis. Names of drugs are in black-face type;
names of preparations are in light-face italics. An index is added to
assist in ready reference.

Statements of composition refer in some cases to percentage by volume,
in others to percentage by weight, and in still others to percentage by
weight-volume--that is, the weight of a given chemical contained (or the
weight of a given vegetable drug represented by extractives) in 100 Cc.
of the preparation. It has not been thought worth while to indicate
whether the statement in each case is by volume, weight or
weight-volume, since the differences are too small to have any
therapeutic importance. Statements of alcoholic content refer to
percentage by volume and are approximate only. In a few instances in
which the quantity of alcohol in a dose is small, or in which the
preparation is intended for external use, the alcohol content is not
stated.

DOSAGE statements, when followed by the letters "U.S.P." or "N.F.," are
taken from these books, respectively, and are understood to be the
average adult doses. In some cases in which this statement was felt to
be inadequate or unsatisfactory, further suggestions as to dosage have
been added.




PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION


The text of this edition is the same as that of the first, except that a
few typographical errors which were in the first edition have been
corrected.

The new edition differs from the first in the following particulars:

In the first edition, a star indicates that the drug is included in the
second (1916) edition of Useful Drugs. To bring the present edition up
to date, the star (*) here indicates that the drug is included in the
fifth (1921) edition of Useful Drugs.

In compliance with the opinion expressed by some that a more complete
index would be helpful, the index to the second edition has been
materially extended. It is hoped that this will help to familiarize
those who purchase the book with its contents.




TABLES OF METRIC AND APOTHECARIES' WEIGHTS AND MEASURES


METRIC MEASURES OF WEIGHT

  1 Milligram (1 mg.) = 0.001 gram.
  1 Centigram = 0.01 gram.
  1 Decigram = 0.1 gram.
  1 Gram (1 Gm.) = 1.[A]
  1 Decagram = 10 grams.
  1 Hektogram = 100 grams.
  1 Kilogram (1 kg.) = 1000 grams.[B]

  A: The weight of 1 cubic centimeter of water at 4 C.

  B: The weight of 1 cubic decimeter of water at 4 C.


METRIC FLUID MEASURE

  1 Milliliter (1 cubic centimeter, 1 Cc.) = 0.001 cubic decimeter.
  1 Centiliter (10 Cc.) = 0.01 cubic decimeter.
  1 Deciliter (100 Cc.) = 0.1 cubic decimeter.
  1 Liter (1000 Cc.) = 1 cubic decimeter.


APOTHECARIES' WEIGHT

  20 Grains = 1 scruple.
  3 Scruples = 1 drachm.
  8 Drachms = 1 ounce.
  12 Ounces = 1 pound.


APOTHECARIES' FLUID MEASURE

  60 Minims = 1 fluidrachm.
   8 Fluidrachms = 1 fluidounce.
  16 Fluidounces = 1 pint.


EQUIVALENTS OF APOTHECARIES' WEIGHT IN METRIC

  1 Grain  = 0.06479895 Gm.
  1 Drachm = 3.8879369 Gm.
  1 Ounce  = 31.1034956 Gm.
  1 Pound  = 373.241948 Gm.


EQUIVALENTS OF APOTHECARIES' FLUID MEASURE IN METRIC

  1 Minim = 0.06161 Cc.
  1 Fluidrachm = 3.6966 Cc.
  1 Fluidounce = 29.573 Cc.
  1 Pint = 473.17 Cc.


EQUIVALENTS OF METRIC WEIGHT IN APOTHECARIES'

     0.001 Gm. (1 milligram, 1 mg.) = 0.01543 grain.
     0.01  Gm. (1 centigram) = 0.15432 grain.
     0.1   Gm. (1 decigram) = 1.54324 grains.
     1     Gm. (1 gram) = 15.4324 grains.
    10     Gm. (1 decagram) = 2 drachms, 34.324 grains.
   100     Gm. (1 hectogram) = 3 ounces, 1 drachm, 43.24 grains.
  1000     Gm. (1 kilogram, 1 kg.) = 2 pounds, 8 ounces, 52.4 grains.


EQUIVALENTS OF METRIC FLUID MEASURE IN APOTHECARIES'

    1 Cc. = 16.231 minims.
   10 Cc. = 2 fluidrachms, 42.311 minims.
  100 Cc. = 3 fluidounces, 3 fluidrachms, 3.11 minims.
 1000 Cc. (1 Liter) = 2 pints, 1 fluidounce, 6 fluidrachms, 31.1 minims.


METRIC AND APOTHECARIES' EQUIVALENTS (WEIGHTS)

  Gm.     Grains                           Grains    Gm.
  1  =   15.4324                            1  =  0.06480
  2  =   30.8647                            2  =  0.12960
  3  =   46.2971                            3  =  0.19440
  4  =   61.7294                            4  =  0.25920
  5  =   77.1618                            5  =  0.32399
  6  =   92.5941                            6  =  0.38879
  7  =  108.0265                            7  =  0.45359
  8  =  123.4589                            8  =  0.51839
  9  =  138.8912                            9  =  0.58319


METRIC AND APOTHECARIES' EQUIVALENTS (VOLUME)

  Cc.     Minims                           Minims    Cc.
  1  =   16.231                             1  =  0.061610
  2  =   32.462                             2  =  0.123220
  3  =   48.693                             3  =  0.184831
  4  =   64.924                             4  =  0.246441
  5  =   81.156                             5  =  0.308051
  6  =   97.387                             6  =  0.369661
  7  =  113.618                             7  =  0.431271
  8  =  129.849                             8  =  0.492882
  9  =  146.080                             9  =  0.554492


CENTIGRADE AND FAHRENHEIT THERMOMETRIC EQUIVALENTS

  C.°       F.°
  -40       -40
  -30       -22
  -20        -4
  -10        14
    0        32
    5        41
   10        50
   15        59
   20        68
   25        77
   30        86
   35        95
   40       104
   45       113
   50       122
   55       131
   60       140
   65       149
   70       158
   75       167
   80       176
   85       185
   90       194
   95       203
  100       212
  110       230
  120       248
  130       266
  140       284
  150       302
  200       392
  250       482
  300       572
  350       662


CLINICAL TABLE OF CENTIGRADE AND FAHRENHEIT THERMOMETRIC EQUIVALENTS

   C.°      F.°
  36.0     96.80
  36.2     97.16
  36.3     97.34
  36.4     97.52
  36.5     97.70
  36.6     97.88
  36.7     98.06
  36.8     98.24
  36.9     98.42
  37.0     98.60
  37.1     98.78
  37.2     98.96
  37.3     99.14
  37.4     99.32
  37.5     99.50
  37.6     99.68
  37.7     99.86
  37.8    100.04
  37.9    100.22
  38.0    100.40
  38.1    100.58
  38.2    100.76
  38.3    100.94
  38.4    101.12
  38.5    101.30
  38.6    101.48
  38.7    101.66
  38.8    101.84
  38.9    102.02
  39.0    102.20
  39.1    102.38
  39.2    102.56
  39.3    102.74
  39.4    102.92
  39.5    103.10
  39.6    103.28
  39.7    103.46
  39.8    103.64
  39.9    103.82
  40.0    104.00
  40.1    104.18
  40.2    104.36
  40.3    104.54
  40.4    104.72
  40.5    104.90
  40.6    105.08
  40.8    105.44
  41.0    105.80
  41.2    106.16
  41.4    106.52
  41.6    106.88
  41.8    107.24
  42.0    107.60
  42.2    107.96
  42.4    108.32
  42.6    108.68
  42.8    109.04
  43.0    109.40




Epitome of the U.S. Pharmacopeia
  and National Formulary


       *       *       *       *       *


[STARS (*) DESIGNATE PREPARATIONS DESCRIBED IN "USEFUL DRUGS," A BOOK
PREPARED TO FURTHER A MORE RATIONAL MATERIA MEDICA AND PUBLISHED BY THE
AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, PRICE 50 CENTS]


       *       *       *       *       *


=Absinthium (Absinth.), Absinthium, N.F.= (Wormwood, Madderwort,
Vermuth).

     Leaves and flowering tops.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete aromatic bitter; without
  advantage over gentian or other bitter drugs.


=*Acacia (Acac.), Acacia, U.S.P.= (Gum Arabic, Gum Senegal).

     A gum occurring in tears, fragments or powder. Slowly and almost
     completely soluble in water and insoluble in alcohol. Incompatible
     with sodium borate, lead acetate and ferric salts.

  ACTION AND USES: Demulcent; chiefly as a vehicle to
  suspend insoluble substances in aqueous mixtures.

_*Mucilago Acaciae (Mucil. Acac.), Mucilage of Acacia, U.S.P._--Acacia
(35%) in water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Acaciae (Syr. Acac.), Syrup of Acacia, U.S.P._--Acacia (10%) in
sugar and water.


=ACETA, VINEGARS.=--A vinegar is a solution of vegetable principles
either in diluted acetic acid or in a mixture of diluted acetic acid and
alcohol. For Acetum Aromaticum, see under =Oleum Lavandulae=; for Acetum
Opii and Acetum Scillae, see under =Opium= and =Scilla=, respectively.


=*Acetanilidum (Acetanil.), Acetanilid, U.S.P.= (Acetanilide,
Antifebrin).--C{6}H{5}NH.CH{3}CO.

     A white, odorless, crystalline powder, with a slightly burning
     taste. Slightly soluble in water (1:190), very soluble in alcohol
     (1:3.4) and in chloroform (1:3.7). Incompatible with spirit of
     nitrous ether and forms pasty masses when triturated with chloral
     or antipyrin.

  ACTION AND USES: Analgesic, antipyretic and, in excessive
  doses, a cardiac depressant. Used particularly to
  relieve headache and neuralgic pains. A habit-forming
  drug. If used over a long period of time, it may produce
  a severe anemia.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (U.S.P.) in powders
  which may be placed in capsules, or tablets which should
  be crushed before swallowing. It is well to begin with 0.1
  Gm. or about 1-1/2 grains, and to repeat cautiously.

_Pulvis Acetanilidi Compositus (Pulv. Acetanil. Co.), Compound
Acetanilid Powder, N.F._--Acetanilid (70%), caffeine (10%) and sodium
bicarbonate (20%).

  USES: Irrational acetanilid preparation. The caffeine
  does not diminish the toxicity, nor does the bicarbonate
  increase the solubility of acetanilid, as was at one time
  supposed.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (N.F.).


=Acetonum (Aceton.), Acetone, U.S.P.= (Dimethyl-Ketone).

     A colorless liquid, with an ethereal odor and a pungent sweetish
     taste. Miscible with water, alcohol, ether and chloroform.

  ACTION AND USES: Pharmaceutic solvent.


=*Acetphenetidinum (Acetphen.), Acetphenetidin, U.S.P.
(Phenacetin).=--C{6}H{4}(OC{2}H{5}).NH.CH{3}CO.

     White, odorless, slightly bitter, crystalline scales or powder.
     Very slightly soluble in water (1:1310), soluble in alcohol (1:15)
     and in chloroform (1:14).

  ACTION AND USES: Analgesic, antipyretic and, in excessive
  doses, a cardiac depressant. Used particularly for
  the relief of headache and neuralgic pains and in the treatment
  of mild fevers. A habit-forming drug. If used for a
  long period of time, it may produce a severe anemia.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (U.S.P.), in powders or
  capsules. If small doses fail to relieve headache, larger
  doses are also usually ineffective.


=*Acidum Aceticum (Acid. Acet.), Acetic Acid, U.S.P.=--Acetic acid
CH{3}.COOH (about 36.5%).

  ACTION AND USES: Caustic and rubefacient. In the form
  of vinegar, is antidote to alkalies.

_Acidum Aceticum Dilutum (Acid. Acet. Dil.), Diluted Acetic Acid,
U.S.P._--CH{3}COOH (about 6%).

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims.

_Acidum Aceticum Glaciale (Acid. Acet. Glac.), Glacial Acetic Acid,
U.S.P._--CH{3}COOH.

     A colorless liquid, with a vinegar-like odor and a pungent, sour
     taste. Miscible with water or alcohol.


*=Acidum Benzoicum (Acid. Benz.), Benzoic Acid, U.S.P.=--C{6}H{5}.COOH.
Obtained from benzoin or prepared synthetically.

     Lustrous, almost colorless scales or needles, with a pungent, acid
     taste. Slightly soluble in water (1:275) and freely soluble in
     alcohol (1:2.3); also readily soluble in solutions of alkali
     hydroxides or carbonates with the production of alkali benzoates.

  ACTION AND USES: Mild antiseptic and diuretic.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.), best given in the
  form of soluble benzoates (see under =Sodii Benzoas=).


*=Acidum Boricum (Acid. Bor.) Boric Acid, U.S.P.= (Boracic
Acid).--H{3}BO{3}.

     Colorless, odorless scales or powder with a faintly bitter taste.
     Soluble in water and in alcohol (1:18); freely soluble in glycerin
     (1:4).

  ACTION AND USES: Mild antiseptic and astringent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.), in solution. A
  watery solution, ranging from 2 per cent. to =saturated=, is
  used in the treatment of conjunctivitis, cystitis, etc.
  Externally used as dusting powder.

_*Glyceritum Boroglycerini (Glycer. Boroglyc.), Glycerite of
Boroglycerin, U.S.P._--Boroglycerin in glycerin representing 31% boric
acid.

_Liquor Antisepticus (Liq. Antisept.), Antiseptic Solution, N.F._--Boric
acid (2.5%), thymol, eucalyptol, methyl salicylate, oil of thyme,
menthol, sodium salicylate and sodium benzoate in alcohol and water.

  USES: Needlessly complex aromatic mouthwash.

_*Unguentum Acidi Borici (Ung. Acid. Bor.), Ointment of Boric Acid,
U.S.P._--Boric acid (10%) in paraffin and white petrolatum.


=Acidum Bromauricum (Acid. Bromaur.), Bromauric Acid, N.
F.=--Corresponds to not less than 32 per cent. of metallic gold.

     A dark-brown, odorless solid, with a metallic acid taste. Very
     soluble in water and in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: "Alterative" apparently of no value.

  DOSAGE: 0.006 Gm. or 1/10 grain (N.F.).

_Liquor Auri et Arseni Bromidi (Liq. Aur. et Arsen. Brom.), Solution of
Gold and Arsenic Bromide, N.F._--Contains hydrogen bromaurate (HAuBr{4})
and arsenic acid (H{3}AsO{4}) obtained by oxidizing a solution of
arsenous oxide with bromine and adding bromauric acid.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (N.F.)


=Acidum Citricum (Acid. Cit), Citric Acid, U.S.P.=

     Colorless, odorless crystals. Very soluble in water (1:0.5) and in
     alcohol (1:1.8).

  ACTION AND USES: Substitute for lemon juice; also substitute
  for dilute hydrochloric acid in the treatment of
  gastric hypoacidity.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.), in solution.

_Syrupus Acidi Citrici (Syr. Acid. Cit.), Syrup of Citric Acid,
U.S.P._--Citric acid (1%), flavored with tincture of lemon peel, in
syrup.

  USES: Vehicle for salty substances such as bromides.


=Acidum Formicum (Acid. Formic), Formic Acid, N.F.=--HCOOH (about 25%).

     A clear, colorless liquid, with a characteristic pungent odor, and
     an acid reaction.

  ACTION AND USES: Externally as caustic irritant, but
  without advantage over mustard. Internally as slightly
  irritant diuretic, but without advantage over nitrates. The
  elixirs containing various formates are intended as tonics,
  but there is no good evidence that they have such action.
  They are needlessly complex and irrational.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Cc. or 5 minims (N.F.).

_Elixir Formatum (Elix. Format.), Elixir of Formates, N.F._--Potassium
formate (5%), sodium formate (5%) and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol
content about 15 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Formatum Compositum (Elix. Format. Co.), Compound Elixir of
Formates, N.F._--Sodium formate (3%), magnesium formate (2.5%),
strontium formate (2.5%), lithium formate (1%), quinine formate (0.8%),
compound spirit of cardamom, acetic ether, alcohol, glycerin and
distilled water. Absolute alcohol content about 9.9 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Spiritus Acidi Formici (Sp. Ac. Formic.), Spirit of Formic Acid, N.F._
(Spiritus Formicarum, Spirit of Ants).--Formic acid (4%) in distilled
water and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  USES: Rubefacient.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Acidum Gallicum (Acid. Gallic.), Gallic Acid, U.S.P.=

     An odorless, almost white powder, with an astringent taste. Soluble
     in water (1:87) and freely soluble in alcohol (1:4.6) and in
     glycerin (1:10).

  ACTION AND USES: Mild astringent; not very effective.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).


=Acidum Hydriodicum Dilutum (Acid. Hydriod. Dil.), Diluted Hydriodic
Acid, U.S.P.=--HI (about 10%).

     A colorless, odorless liquid, with a strong acid taste.
     Incompatible with alkalies and their carbonates, also with metallic
     oxides and salts of silver and of lead.

  ACTION AND USES: Has the general properties of iodides.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.), diluted. Administered
  chiefly in the form of syrup as a substitute for the
  alkali iodides, over which it has no material advantage.

_Syrupus Acidi Hydriodici (Syr. Acid. Hydriod.), Syrup of Hydriodic
Acid, U.S.P._--Hydriodic acid (about 1.25%).

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).


=Acidum Hydrobromicum Dilutum (Acid. Hydrobrom. Dil.), Diluted
Hydrobromic Acid, U.S.P.=--HBr (about 10%).

     A colorless, odorless liquid, with a strong acid taste.
     Incompatible with alkalies and their carbonates, metallic oxides
     and the salts of silver and of lead.

  ACTION AND USES: In general, those of bromides; but
  the preparation is objectionable because of its acidity.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.), diluted.


=*Acidum Hydrochloricum (Acid. Hydrochl.), Hydrochloric Acid, U.S.P.=
(Muriatic Acid).--HCl (about 32%).

     A fuming, corrosive liquid. Incompatible with alkalies and their
     carbonates, metallic oxides and salts of silver and of lead.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in gastric hypoacidity; also as
  caustic; antiseptic.

_*Acidum Hydrochloricum Dilutum (Acid. Hydrochl. Dil.), Diluted
Hydrochloric Acid, U.S.P._--HCl (about 10%).

     A colorless, odorless, strongly acid solution.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.), after meals,
  diluted in one-half to one glass water and taken through
  a glass tube to protect the teeth.


=Acidum Hydrocyanicum Dilutum (Acid. Hydrocyan. Dil.), Diluted
Hydrocyanic Acid, U.S.P.= (Diluted Prussic Acid, Acidum Hydrocyanicum
Dilutum, P.I.).--HCN (about 2%).

     A colorless liquid, with an odor like that of bitter almonds.

  ACTION AND USES: Said to be sedative. Was formerly
  used as an addition to cough mixtures and as an antiemetic
  but, because of its poisonous properties and instability, is
  no longer used to the same extent.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Cc. or 1-1/2 minims (U.S.P.)--not drops.


=Acidum Hypophosphorosum (Acid. Hypophos.), Hypophosphorous Acid,
U.S.P.=--H{3}PO{2} (about 31%).

     A colorless, odorless liquid.

  ACTION AND USES: Ingredient of compound hypophosphite
  preparations.

_Acidum Hypophosphorosum Dilutum (Acid. Hypophos. Dil.), Diluted
Hypophosphorous Acid, U.S.P._--H{3}PO{2} (about 10%).

     A colorless, odorless liquid with a strong acid taste.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.), diluted.


=Acidum Lacticum (Acid. Lact.), Lactic Acid, U.S.P.=--Equivalent to
about 87 per cent. lactic acid.

     A colorless or nearly colorless, nearly odorless, syrupy liquid,
     with an acid taste. Miscible with water.

  ACTION AND USES: Caustic; seldom used internally.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.), diluted.


=*Acidum Nitricum (Acid. Nitric.), Nitric Acid, U.S.P.=--HNO{3} (about
68%).

     A colorless, fuming, very corrosive liquid with a suffocating odor.
     Miscible with water.

  ACTION AND USES: Caustic.


=Acidum Nitrohydrochloricum (Acid. Nitrohydrochl.), Nitrohydrochloric
Acid, U.S.P.= (Aqua Regia, Nitromuriatic Acid).--A mixture of
hydrochloric acid, nitric acid, nitrosyl chloride and chlorine.

     A golden-yellow, fuming, very corrosive liquid. Miscible with
     water.

  ACTION AND USES: Caustic. Formerly thought to be a
  "hepatic stimulant," but acts much like other mineral acids.

_Acidum Nitrohydrochloricum Dilutum (Acid. Nitrohydrochl. Dil.), Diluted
Nitrohydrochloric Acid, U.S.P._ (Diluted Nitromuriatic Acid).--An
aqueous solution of about one-fifth the strength of nitrohydrochloric
acid; should be freshly prepared.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.), well diluted.


=Acidum Oleicum (Acid. Oleic.), Oleic Acid, U.S.P.=--Obtained from fats.

     A yellowish or brownish-yellow, oily liquid, having a lard-like
     odor and taste. Practically insoluble in water, partially soluble
     in 60 per cent. alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Solvent for making oleates.


=*Acidum Phenylcinchoninicum (Acid. Phenylcinch.), Phenylcinchoninic
Acid, U.S.P.= (Phenyl-Quinoline-Carboxylic Acid, Atophan).

     A white or nearly white, odorless or nearly odorless powder with a
     bitter taste. Insoluble in cold water, slightly soluble in cold
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Increases the excretion of uric acid
  and diminishes its concentration in the blood. Analgesic.
  Has been used in acute and chronic gout.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.), in tablets or
  powder.


=Acidum Phosphoricum (Acid. Phos.), Phosphoric Acid, U.S.P.=--H{3}PO{4}
(about 86.5%).

     A colorless, odorless, syrupy liquid having a strongly acid taste.
     Miscible with water. Incompatible with alkalies, alkali carbonates,
     ferric chloride, lead acetate and solutions of lime.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of hydrochloric acid.
  Has none of the therapeutic properties of free phosphorus.

_Acidum Phosphoricum Dilutum (Acid. Phos. Dil.), Diluted Phosphoric
Acid, U.S.P._--H{3}PO{4} (about 10%).

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.), diluted.

_Liquor Phosphatum Acidus (Liq. Phos. Acid.), Acid Solution of
Phosphates, N.F._ (Solution of Acid Phosphates).--Made by dissolving
precipitated calcium carbonate (5%) in phosphoric acid and water.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Liquor Phosphatum Compositus (Liq. Phos. Co.), Compound Solution of
Phosphates, N.F._--Phosphates of calcium, iron, ammonium, potassium and
sodium in citric acid, glycerin, orange flower water and water.

_Syrupus Phosphatum Compositum (Syr. Phos. Co.), Compound Syrup of the
Phosphates, N.F._ (Chemical Food).--Compound solution of phosphates
(50%), colored with tincture of cudbear, in glycerin and syrup.

  USES: Antiquated and irrational "tonic."

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Syrupus Phosphatum cum Quinina et Strychnina._--See under =Quininae
Hydrochloridum=.


=Acidum Picricum, Picric Acid.=--See =Trinitrophenol=.


=*Acidum Salicylicum (Acid. Salicyl.), Salicylic Acid,
U.S.P.=--C{6}H{4}(OH)COOH.

     A white, odorless powder, tasting first sweetish, subsequently
     acrid. Slightly soluble in water (1:460), freely soluble in alcohol
     (1:2.7) and in ether. Incompatible with solutions of iron and with
     spirit of nitrous ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Antirheumatic, antiseptic, germicide
  and keratolytic.

  DOSAGE: Internally 0.75 Gm. or 12 grains (U.S.P.)
  best given in the form of soluble salicylates (see =Sodii
  Salicylas=). Externally in 10 per cent. ointment as a
  keratolytic.

_Collodium Salicylici Compositum (Collod. Salicyl. Co.), Compound
Salicylic Collodion, N.F._--Salicylic acid (1.1%) and flexible collodion
colored with fluidextract of cannabis.

  USES: A popular application for softening corns. The
  cannabis can play no rôle beyond that of coloring agent.

_Glycerogelatinum Acidi Salicylici (Glycerogel. Acid. Salicyl.),
Salicylic Acid Glycerogelatin, N.F._--Salicylic acid (10%), in water,
glycerin and glycerinated gelatin.

_Mulla Acidi Salicylici (Mull. Ac. Salicyl.), Salicylic Acid Mull, N.F._
(Unguentum Salicylatum Extensum, N.F. III).--Salicylic acid (10%), in
benzoinated suet and benzoinated lard.

_Mulla Creosoti Salicylata (Mull. Creosot. Salicyl.), Salicylated
Creosote Mull, N.F._ (Unguentum Creosoti Salicylatum Extensum, N.F.
III).--Salicylic acid (10%), and creosote (20%) in yellow wax and
benzoinated suet.

_Pulvis Talci Compositus (Pulv. Talc. Co.), Compound Powder of Talc,
N.F._ (Boro-Salicylated Powder of Talc).--Salicylic acid (3%), boric
acid (10%) and talc.

  USES: Toilet powder, used for local sweating.

_Stili Acidi Salicylici Dilubiles (Stil. Acid. Salicyl. Dilub.),
Salicylic Acid Pencil, N.F._--Salicylic acid (10%) with tragacanth,
starch, white dextrin and sugar.

  USES: For the application of salicylic acid to limited
  areas


=Acidum Stearicum (Acid. Stear.), Stearic Acid, U.S.P.=--Obtained from
fats.

     A white, hard, unctuous, odorless and tasteless substance. Soluble
     in alcohol (1:21) and in chloroform (1:2), but insoluble in water.

  USES: Used in making glycerin suppositories.


=Acidum Sulphuricum (Acid. Sulph.), Sulphuric Acid, U.S.P.=--H{2}SO{4}
(about 94%).

     A colorless, odorless, corrosive liquid. Miscible with water or
     alcohol with evolution of much heat.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of hydrochloric acid.
  Externally, the dilute acid is used as astringent.

_Acidum Sulphuricum Aromaticum (Acid. Sulph. Arom.), Aromatic Sulphuric
Acid, U.S.P._--A mixture, containing free sulphuric acid and
ethylsulphuric acid equivalent to about 20 per cent. of H{2}SO{4} in
alcohol, flavored with ginger and cinnamon. Absolute alcohol content
about 85 per cent.

     A clear, reddish-brown liquid with an aromatic odor.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims, well diluted.

_Acidum Sulphuricum Dilutum (Acid. Sulph. Dil.), Diluted Sulphuric Acid,
U.S.P._--H{2}SO{4} (about 10%).

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.), well diluted.


=*Acidum Tannicum (Acid. Tann.), Tannic Acid, U.S.P.= (Gallotannic Acid,
Tannin).--Usually obtained from nutgalls.

     A yellowish-white to light brown powder, odorless or having a
     faint, characteristic odor and a strongly astringent taste. Freely
     soluble in glycerin (1:1) and very soluble in water and in alcohol.
     Incompatible with soluble preparations of iron.

  ACTION AND USES: Astringent; local hemostatic; antidote
  for certain alkaloidal and metallic poisons.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Collodium Stypticum (Collod. Stypt.), Styptic Collodion, N.F._--Tannic
acid (20%) and flexible collodion. There is no advantage in applying
tannin as collodion.

_*Glyceritum Acidi Tannici (Glycer. Acid. Tann.), Glycerite of Tannic
Acid, U.S.P._ (Glycerite of Tannin).--Tannic acid (20%) in glycerin.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Trochisci Acidi Tannici (Troch. Acid. Tann.), Troches of Tannic Acid,
U.S.P._--Each troche contains tannic acid (0.06 Gm. or 1 grain), with
sugar and tragacanth, flavored with orange flower.

_Unguentum Acidi Tannici (Ung. Acid. Tann.), Ointment of Tannic Acid,
U.S.P._--Tannic acid (20%), in glycerin and ointment.


=Acidum Tartaricum (Acid. Tart.), Tartaric Acid, U.S.P.=--Obtained from
wine lees or argol.

     A white, odorless powder, with an acid taste. Very soluble in water
     (1:0.75) and in alcohol (1:3.3).

  ACTION AND USES: Mild acid; used in the manufacture
  of effervescent salts.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains, diluted.


=Acidum Trichloraceticum (Acid. Trichloracet.), Trichloracetic Acid,
U.S.P.=--CCl{3}.COOH.

     Colorless, deliquescent crystals with a slight characteristic odor.
     Miscible with water and with alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Caustic, for the removal of warts and
  other skin blemishes. Used also as local hemostatic.


=Aconitina (Aconitin.), Aconitine, U.S.P.=--An alkaloid obtained from
aconite.

     A white, odorless powder. Very slightly soluble in water, soluble
     in alcohol (1:28) and in ether (1:65).

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those described under
  aconite. As several alkaloidal preparations of aconite, of
  varying activity, are sold under the name of aconitine, its
  use is not advisable.

  DOSAGE: 0.15 mg. or 1/400 grain (U.S.P.).

_Oleatum Aconitinae (Oleat. Aconitin.), Oleate of Aconitine,
N.F._--Aconitine (2%) in oleic acid and olive oil.

  USES: Without advantage over aconite preparations for
  external application.


=*Aconitum (Aconit.), Aconite, U.S.P.= (Monkshood, Aconite Root, Aconiti
Tuber, P.I.).--A tuberous root, yielding about 0.5 per cent. of
ether-soluble alkaloids; also assayed biologically. Physicians should
specify preparations that have been assayed biologically, since the
alkaloidal assay is not a reliable index of activity.

  ACTION AND USES: Slows the pulse and lowers the blood
  pressure, but this action in therapeutic doses is uncertain.
  Used in the treatment of febrile colds; also for counter-irritation,
  in the form of the tincture. Used also as a local
  anesthetic, and by some still believed to be useful in the
  treatment of the symptoms arising from excessive cardiac
  hypertrophy. Toxic symptoms may occur from local
  absorption.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.); not used as
  such.

_Extractum Aconiti (Ext. Aconit.), Extract of Aconite, U.S.P._ (Powdered
Extract of Aconite).--Yields about 2 per cent. of ether-soluble
alkaloids. Biologically assayed by producing death in the guinea-pig.

  DOSAGE: 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.). Physicians
  who prescribe extract of aconite should specify the biologically
  assayed product.

_Fluidextractum Aconiti (Fldext. Aconit.), Fluidextract of Aconite,
U.S.P._--Aconite (100%), yielding about 0.5 per cent. of alkaloids.
Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent. Biologically assayed by
producing death in the guinea-pig.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Cc. or 1/2 minim (U.S.P.). Physicians
  who prescribe fluidextract of aconite should specify the
  biologically assayed product. Best to use the tincture.

_Linimentum Aconiti et Chloroformi (Lin. Aconit. et Chlorof.), Liniment
of Aconite and Chloroform, N.F._--Fluidextract of aconite (4.5%), in
alcohol, chloroform and soap liniment.

*_Tinctura Aconiti (Tr. Aconit.), Tincture of Aconite, U.S.P._ (Aconiti
Tinctura, P.I.).--Aconite (10%) yielding about 0.05 per cent. of
alkaloids, in alcohol and water. Alkaloidal assay unreliable.
Biologically assayed by producing death in the guinea-pig. Absolute
alcohol content about 65 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Cc. or 5 minims (U.S.P.). Physicians
  should specify the biologically assayed product.


=*Adeps (Adeps), Lard, U.S.P.=

     Insoluble in water, and only slightly soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Basis for ointments. Used particularly
  when absorption is desired.

_*Adeps Benzoinatus (Adeps Benz.), Benzoinated Lard, U.S.P._--Somewhat
antiseptic and less liable to rancidity than ordinary lard.

_Unguentum (Ung.), Ointment, U.S.P._ (Simple Ointment).--White wax (20%)
and benzoinated lard.


=Adeps Lanae (Adeps Lan.), Wool Fat, U.S.P.= (Anhydrous
Lanolin).--Purified wool fat, freed from water.

     Insoluble in but miscible with about twice its weight of water;
     sparingly soluble in cold alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Basis for ointments; because of its
  tenacious consistency, should be mixed with some other
  base.

_*Adeps Lanae Hydrosus (Adeps Lan. Hyd.), Hydrous Wool Fat, U.S.P._
(Lanolin).--Wool fat with about 27 per cent. of water.

  USES: Ointment used particularly when absorption
  through the skin is desired; mixed with white petrolatum
  or lard.


=Adonis (Adonis), Adonis, N.F.= (Pheasant's Eye).--The plant deprived of
its root.

  ACTION AND USES: Cardiac tonic of digitalis group, but
  of unreliable activity.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Adonidis (Fldext. Adonid.), Fluidextract of Adonis,
N.F._--Adonis (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Cc. or 2 minims (N.F.).


=*Aether (Aether), Ether, U.S.P.=--Contains about 96.5 per cent. of
ethyl oxide.

     A clear, colorless, very inflammable liquid with a characteristic
     odor and a burning, sweetish taste. Soluble in water (1:12), and
     miscible with alcohol, chloroform, petroleum benzin, benzene, and
     fixed or volatile oils.

  ACTION AND USES: General anesthetic, administered by
  inhalation; when administered by mouth, carminative.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims.

_*Spiritus Aetheris (Sp. Aeth.), Spirit of Ether, U.S.P._ (Hoffmann's
Drops).--Ether (32.5%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 65 per
cent.

  USES: Carminative and fugacious indirect circulatory
  stimulant.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Spiritus Aetheris Compositus (Sp. Aether. Co.), Compound Spirit of
Ether, N.F._ (Hoffmann's Anodyne).--Ether (32.5%), ethereal oil (2.5%)
and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  USES: A superfluous modification of spirit of ether.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Aether Aceticus (Aeth. Acet.), Acetic Ether, N.F.= (Ethyl Acetate).

     A colorless, fragrant liquid, with a burning taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Carminative, similar to and without
  special advantage over ether. Also used pharmaceutically,
  as flavoring ingredient.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=*Aether Nitrosus, Nitrous Ether.=--Ethyl nitrite.

_*Spiritus Aetheris Nitrosi (Sp. Aeth. Nitros.), Spirit of Nitrous
Ether, U.S.P._ (Sweet Spirit of Nitre).--Ethyl nitrite (about 4%) in
alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 92 per cent.

  ACTION AND USES: Popularly used as a weak diuretic
  and diaphoretic. Unstable and therefore unreliable. Has
  the physiologic action of a weak nitrite.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=Aethylis Carbamas (Aethyl. Carbam.), Ethyl Carbamate, U.S.P.= (Carbamic
Acid Ethyl Ester, Urethane, Ethyl Urethane).

     Colorless, odorless crystals or scales, with a cooling, saline
     taste. Freely soluble in water (1:0.45) and in alcohol (1:0.8).
     Incompatible with alkalies, acids and most other chemicals.

  ACTION AND USES: Very mild and relatively harmless
  hypnotic.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.) in powder,
  cachets or solution.


=*Aethylis Chloridum (Aethyl. Chlor.), Ethyl Chloride,
U.S.P.=--Monochlorethane, CH{3}CH{2}Cl.

     A colorless, very volatile liquid, with an agreeable odor and a
     sweetish, burning taste. The vapor is very inflammable. Slightly
     soluble in water and freely soluble in alcohol and in ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Local anesthetic for minor operations.
  Used in the form of a spray to produce intense cold.
  Has also been used by inhalation as general anesthetic in
  short operations.


=*Aethylmorphinae Hydrochloridum (Aethylmorph. Hydrochl.), Ethylmorphine
Hydrochloride, U.S.P.= (Ethylmorphine Chloride, Dionin).

     A white, odorless powder, with a slightly bitter taste. Very
     soluble in water (1:8) and soluble in alcohol (1:22).

  ACTION AND USES: Systemically, intermediate between
  those of morphine and codeine. Probably possesses no
  advantage over codeine. When applied to the eye it
  causes local hyperemia terminating in acute conjunctival
  edema.

  DOSAGE: 0.015 Gm. or 1/4 grain (U.S.P.). Used as 10
  per cent. ointment or solution in corneal opacity and
  similar conditions.


=Agar (Agar), Agar, U.S.P.= (Agar-Agar).--A mucilaginous substance
extracted from certain seaweeds.

     Nearly white, almost odorless and tasteless strips, shreds or
     powder, tough when damp, brittle when dry. Insoluble in cold water,
     but slowly soluble in hot water.

  ACTION AND USES: Passes through the intestinal canal
  almost unchanged. Absorbs and retains moisture. Used
  in chronic constipation with intestinal atony; renders the
  feces soft and bulky and thus promotes peristalsis.

  DOSAGE: 10 Gm. or 2-1/2 drachms (U.S.P.).


=Agaricus (Agaric), Agaric, N.F.= (White Agaric, Larch Agaric).--The
fruit body of a fungus.

  ACTION AND USES: Empirical and unreliable remedy for
  night sweats of phthisis.

  DOSAGE: 0.6 Gm. or 10 grains (N.F.).


=*Alcohol (Alcohol), Alcohol, U.S.P.=--Not less than 92.3 per cent. by
weight or 94.9 per cent. by volume of C{2}H{5}OH.

     A colorless, volatile, inflammable liquid, with a characteristic
     odor and burning taste. Freely miscible with water, ether or
     chloroform.

  ACTION AND USES: Rubefacient, astringent, antiseptic
  and by its evaporation a refrigerant. Internally it is a
  narcotic widely used as a "stimulant" but may do more
  harm than good.

_Alcohol Dehydratum (Alcohol Dehyd.), Dehydrated Alcohol, U.S.P._
(Alcohol Absolutum, U.S.P. VIII).--Not less than 99 per cent. by weight
of C{2}H{5}OH.

     A liquid with the same color, odor and taste as alcohol.

_Alcohol Dilutum (Alcohol Dil.), Diluted Alcohol, U.S.P._--About 41.5
per cent. by weight or 49 per cent. by volume of C{2}H{5}OH.

_*Elixir Aromaticum (Elix. Arom.), Aromatic Elixir, U.S.P._ (Simple
Elixir).--Compound spirit of orange in syrup, alcohol and distilled
water. Absolute alcohol content about 22 per cent.

  USES: Diluent and vehicle. The alcohol content of this
  preparation should not be overlooked.

_Elixir Aromaticum Rubrum (Elix. Arom. Rub.), Red Aromatic Elixir, N.F._
(Red Elixir).--Aromatic elixir colored with cudbear.

  USES: Diluent and vehicle.

_Elixir Glycyrrhizae (Elix. Glycyrrh.), Elixir of Glycyrrhiza, U.S.P._
(Elixir Adjuvans, U.S.P. VIII, Elixir of Licorice).--Fluidextract of
glycyrrhiza (12.5%) and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about
22 per cent.

  USES: Diluent and vehicle. The alcohol content should
  not be overlooked.

_Elixir Glycyrrhizae Aromaticum (Elix. Glycyrrh. Arom.), Aromatic Elixir
of Glycyrrhiza, N.F._ (Aromatic Elixir of Licorice).--Fluidextract of
glycyrrhiza (12.5%), oil of clove, oil of cassia, oil of myristica, oil
of fennel and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 22 per
cent.

  USES: Flavoring vehicle.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms.


=Aletris (Aletr.), Aletris, N.F.= (Unicorn Root, Colic Root, Star
Grass).--Rhizome and root.

  ACTION AND USES: Simple bitter, without advantage over
  gentian. Also used in proprietary "female remedies," without
  good evidence of value.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Aletridis (Fldext. Aletrid.), Fluidextract of Aletris,
N.F._--Aletris (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Allium (Allium), Garlic, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Irritant expectorant; without advantage
  over senega, terpin hydrate or asafetida.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Syrupus Allii (Syr. Allii), Syrup of Garlic, N.F._--Garlic (20%) in
sugar and diluted acetic acid.

  USES: Irritant expectorant.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=*Aloe (Aloe), Aloes, U.S.P.=--The inspissated juice of different
species of aloes, yielding Socotrine, Curaçao and Cape aloes,
respectively.

  ACTION AND USES: Moderately active cathartic used in
  the treatment of chronic constipation. Acts mostly on the
  large intestine.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.), as pills.

_*Extractum Aloes (Ext. Aloes), Extract of Aloes, N.F._ (Powdered
Extract of Aloes).--An aqueous extract, 1 Gm. representing 2 Gm. of
aloes; diluted with starch. No material advantage over aloes.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (N.F.).

_Pilulae ad Prandium (Pil. ad Prand.), Dinner Pills, N.F._

1. For dinner pills without additional specifications Pilulae Aloes et
Mastiches (which see), also called Lady Webster's Pills, should be
dispensed.

2. CHAPMAN'S DINNER PILLS, N.F.--Each pill contains aloes and mastic
(each 0.097 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains), and ipecac (0.065 Gm. or 1 grain),
with oil of fennel.

3. COLE'S DINNER PILLS, N.F.--Each pill contains aloes, mass of mercury
and jalap (each 0.078 Gm. or 1-1/4 grains), antimony and potassium
tartrate (0.0013 Gm. or 1/50 grain) and syrup.

4. HALL'S DINNER PILLS, N.F.--Each pill contains aloes (0.065 Gm. or 1
grain) with extract of glycyrrhiza and soap.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Aloes (Pil. Aloes), Pills of Aloes, U.S.P._--Each pill contains
aloes (0.13 Gm. or 2 grains) with soap.

  DOSAGE: 2 pills (U.S.P.).

_Pilulae Aloes et Asafoetidae (Pil. Aloe. et Asafoet.), Pills of Aloes
and Asafetida, N.F._--Each pill contains aloes and asafetida (each 0.09
Gm. or 1-1/2 grains) with soap.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (U.S.P.).

_Pilulae Aloes et Ferri (Pil. Aloe. et Ferr.), Pills of Aloes and Iron,
N.F._--Each pill contains aloes and exsiccated ferrous sulphate (each
0.07 Gm. or 1-1/6 grains), with aromatic powder and confection of rose.

  DOSAGE: 2 pills (N.F.).

_Pilulae Aloes et Mastiches (Pil. Aloe. et Mastich.), Pills of Aloes and
Mastic, N.F._ (Lady Webster's Dinner Pill).--Each pill contains aloes
(0.13 Gm. or 2 grains) and mastic (0.04 Gm. or 2/3 grain) with red rose.

  DOSAGE: 2 pills (N.F.).

_Pilulae Aloes et Myrrhae (Pil. Aloe. et Myrrh.), Pills of Aloes and
Myrrh, N.F._--Each pill contains aloes (0.13 Gm. or 2 grains) and myrrh
(0.06 Gm. or 1 grain), with aromatic powder and syrup.

  DOSAGE: 2 pills (N.F.).

_Pilulae Aloes et Podophylli Compositae (Pil. Aloe. et Podoph. Co.),
Compound Pills of Aloes and Podophyllum, N.F._ (Janeway's Pills).--Each
pill contains aloes (0.065 Gm. or 1 grain), resin of podophyllum (0.0325
Gm. or 1/2 grain), pilular extract of belladonna leaves and extract of
nux vomica (each 0.016 Gm. or 1/4 grain).

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Aloes, Hydrargyri et Podophylli (Pil. Aloe. Hydrarg. et
Podoph.), Pills of Aloes, Mercury and Podophyllum, N.F._ (Pilulae
Triplices, N.F. III, Triplex Pills, Pilula Triplex).--Each pill contains
aloes (0.13 Gm. or 2 grains), mass of mercury (0.065 Gm. or 1 grain) and
resin of podophyllum (0.016 Gm. or 1/4 grain). These pills should not be
taken habitually.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Aloes, Hydrargyri et Scammonii Compositae (Pil. Aloe. Hydrarg.
et Scammon Co.), Compound Pills of Aloes, Mercury and Scammony, N.F._
(Francis' Triplex Pills).--Each pill contains aloes, resin of scammony
and mass of mercury (each 0.055 Gm. or 7/8 grain), croton oil (0.0032
Cc. or 1/20 minim), oil of caraway (0.016 Cc. or 1/4 minim) and tincture
of aloes and myrrh. Should not be taken habitually.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pulvis Aloes et Canellae (Pulv. Aloe. et Canell.), Powder of Aloes and
Canella, N.F._ (Hiera Picra).--Aloes (80%) and canella.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (N.F.).

_Tinctura Aloes (Tr. Aloes), Tincture of Aloes, U.S.P._--Aloes (10%) and
glycyrrhiza in diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 47 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Aloes et Myrrhae (Tr. Aloe. et Myrrh.), Tincture of Aloes and
Myrrh, N.F._--Represents aloes and myrrh (each 10%) and glycyrrhiza in
alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  USES: Disagreeable cathartic.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=*Aloinum (Aloin.), Aloin, U.S.P.=--Obtained from aloes.

     A yellow, odorless, intensely bitter powder. Slightly soluble in
     water and soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of aloes; is more
  easily absorbed, and has sometimes produced renal irritation.

  DOSAGE: 0.015 Gm. or 1/4 grain (U.S.P.), as pills. In
  chronic constipation, frequently given in doses of from
  0.006 Gm. to 0.02 Gm., or 1/12 to 1/3 grain in combination
  with extract of belladonna and strychnine.

_Pilulae Aloini Compositae (Pil. Aloin. Co.), Compound Pills of Aloin,
N.F._--Each pill contains aloin (0.0325 Gm. or 1/2 grain), resin of
podophyllum (0.008 Gm. or 1/8 grain), and pilular extract of belladonna
leaves (0.016 Gm. or 1/4 grain).

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Aloini, Strychninae et Belladonnae (Pil. A.S. et B.), Pills of
Aloin, Strychnine and Belladonna, N.F._--Each pill contains aloin (0.013
Gm. or 1/5 grain), strychnine (0.5 mg. or 1/120 grain) and pilular
extract of belladonna leaves (0.008 Gm. or 1/8 grain).

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Aloini, Strychninae et Belladonnae Compositae (Pil. A.S. et B.
Co.), Compound Pills of Aloin, Strychnine and Belladonna, N.F._--Each
pill contains aloin (0.013 Gm. or 1/5 grain), strychnine (0.5 mg. or
1/120 grain), pilular extract of belladonna leaves (0.008 Gm. or 1/8
grain) and extract of cascara sagrada (0.0325 Gm. or 1/2 grain).

  USES: Needlessly complex mixture.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Laxativae Compositae (Pil. Lax. Co.), Compound Laxative Pills,
N.F._--Each pill contains aloin (0.013 Gm. or 1/5 grain), strychnine
(0.5 mg. or 1/120 grain), pilular extract of belladonna leaves (0.008
Gm. or 1/8 grain) and ipecac (0.004 Gm. or 1/15 grain) with glycyrrhiza
and syrup.

  USES: Complex and superfluous preparation of aloin.

  DOSAGE: 2 pills (N.F.).


=Althaea (Althaea), Althaea, U.S.P.= (Marsh Mallow Root).

  ACTION AND USES: Demulcent and emollient; without
  advantages over other drugs of the same kind, such as
  chondrus, tragacanth, slippery elm and flaxseed.

_Species Pectorales (Spec. Pect.), Pectoral Species, N.F._ (Species ad
Infusum Pectorale, Breast Tea).--Althaea, coltsfoot, glycyrrhiza, anise,
mullein flowers and orris root.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Syrupus Althaeae (Syr. Althae.), Syrup of Althaea, N.F._--Althaea (5%)
with alcohol, glycerin and sugar in water. Absolute alcohol content
about 2.5 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Althaeae Folia (Althae. Fol.), Althaea Leaves, N.F.= (Marsh Mallow
Leaves).

  ACTION AND USES: Domestic demulcent and emollient;
  inferior for internal use to gums and for poultices to flaxseed.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Species Emollientes (Spec. Emoll.), Emollient Species, N.F._ (Emollient
Cataplasm).--Althaea leaves, mallow leaves, melilot, matricaria and
flaxseed. Emollient poultice is made by adding a suitable quantity of
hot water to this powder.


=*Alumen (Alum.), Alum, U.S.P.=--AlNH{4}(SO{4}){2} + 12H{2}O or
AlK(SO{4}){2} + 12H{2}O. (The physician may indicate whether ammonium
alum or potassium alum is desired.)

     Colorless crystals or white powder, odorless and possessing a
     strongly astringent taste. Ammonium alum is somewhat less soluble
     in water than is potassium alum, which is freely soluble in water
     (1:7.2); both are insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Astringent, styptic and hemostatic.
  Seldom administered internally.

  DOSAGE: As a gargle, in from 1 to 5 per cent. solution
  (somewhat injurious to the teeth); as an injection in gonorrhea,
  in from 0.5 to 1 per cent. solution; as a lotion in
  skin diseases, in 1 per cent. solution.

_*Alumen Exsiccatum (Alum. Exsic.), Exsiccated Alum, U.S.P._ (Alumen
Ustum, Dried Alum, Burnt Alum).--Anhydrous AlNH{4}(SO{4}){2} or
anhydrous AlK(SO{4}){2}. (The composition of the desired salt may be
indicated.)

     White, odorless powder, with an astringent taste. Very slowly
     soluble in water (1:14); insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used externally like alum, being more
  escharotic.


=*Alumini Acetas, Aluminum Acetate.=--Normal aluminum acetate,
Al(C{2}H{3}O{2}){3}.

_Liquor Alumini Acetatis (Liq. Alumin. Acet.), Solution of Aluminum
Acetate, N.F._ (Liquor Burowii, Burow's Solution).--Contains normal
aluminum acetate, Al(C{2}H{3}O{2}){3} (about 5%).

  USES: Popular astringent wash.

  DOSAGE: Usually diluted with 15 parts of water


=Alumini Acetico-Tartras, Aluminum Acetico-Tartrate.=

_Liquor Alumini Acetico-Tartratis (Liq. Alumin. Acet.-Tart.), Solution
of Aluminum Acetico-Tartrate, N.F._--A solution of aluminum acetate and
tartrate obtained by dissolving aluminum hydroxide in a mixture of
acetic and tartaric acids.


=Alumini Chloridum (Alum. Chlor.), Aluminum Chloride, N.F.=--AlCl{3} +
6H{2}O.

     A nearly white deliquescent powder, with a sweetish, astringent
     taste. Freely soluble in water (1:1) and in alcohol (1:3).

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic and astringent, without
  advantage over alum.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (N.F.).


=Alumini Hydroxidum (Alum. Hydrox.), Aluminum Hydroxide,
U.S.P.=--Al(OH){3}.

     A white, bulky, odorless and tasteless powder. Insoluble in water
     and in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Mild astringent and desiccant, sometimes
  used as a dusting powder.


=Alumini Subacetas, Aluminum Subacetate.=--Basic aluminum acetate,
Al(C{2}H{3}O{2}){2}OH.

_*Liquor Alumini Subacetatis (Liq. Alumin. Subacet.), Solution of
Aluminum Subacetate, N.F._ (Liquor Alumini Acetatis, N.F.
III).--Contains basic aluminum acetate, Al(C{2}H{3}O{2}){2}OH (about
8%).

  USES: Astringent wash.

  DOSAGE: Usually diluted with ten parts of water.


=Alumini Sulphas (Alum. Sulph.), Aluminum Sulphate,
N.F.=--Al{2}(SO{4}){3} + 16H{2}O.

     A white, odorless powder, with an astringent taste. Freely soluble
     in water (1:1), but insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to and without advantage
  over alum.


=*Ammonia (NH{3}).=

_*Aqua Ammoniae (Aq. Ammon.), Ammonia Water, U.S.P._--NH{3} (about 10%)
in water.

     A liquid with a strong odor and a caustic, soapy taste. Loses NH{3}
     readily. Miscible with water or alcohol.

  USES: Local irritant and antacid, preferably as a liniment.
  Fugacious indirect circulatory and respiratory
  stimulant.

_Aqua Ammoniae Fortior (Aq. Ammon. Fort.), Stronger Ammonia Water,
U.S.P._--NH{3} (about 28%) in water.

     Loses NH{3} very readily. Miscible with water or alcohol.

_*Linimentum Ammoniae (Lin. Ammon.), Ammonia Liniment, U.S.P._ (Volatile
Liniment, Hartshorn Liniment).--Ammonia water (25%) in sesame oil.

  USES: Popularly used as counterirritant.

_Lotio Ammoniacalis Camphorata (Lot. Ammon. Camph.), Ammoniated Camphor
Wash, N.F._ (Aqua Sedativa, N.F. III, Sedative Water, Eau Sédative de
Raspail).--Ammonia water (6%) and spirit of camphor (1%), in sodium
chloride and water.

  USES: Counterirritant.

_Spiritus Ammoniae Anisatus (Sp. Ammon. Anis.), Anisated Spirit of
Ammonia, N.F._ (Liquor Ammoniae Anisatus, Anisated Solution of
Ammonia).--Ammonia water (20%) with anethol, in alcohol. Absolute
alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  USES: Aromatic carminative preparation.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=Ammonii Acetas, Ammonium Acetate.=--NH{4}C{2}H{3}O{2}.

_Liquor Ammonii Acetatis (Liq. Ammon. Acet.), Solution of Ammonium
Acetate, U.S.P._ (Spirit of Mindererus).--Contains NH{4}C{2}H{3}O{2}
(not less than 7%).

  USES: Diaphoretic and diuretic in fevers; of doubtful
  value.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Ferri et Ammonii Acetatis (Liq. Ferr. et Ammon. Acet.), Solution
of Iron and Ammonium Acetate, U.S.P._ (Basham's Mixture).

  USES: An antiquated preparation, without the special
  advantages generally ascribed to it. Iron and acetates are
  better prescribed separately.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).


=Ammonii Benzoas (Ammon. Benz.), Ammonium Benzoate, U.S.P.=

     A white, odorless or nearly odorless powder, with a bitterish
     taste. Very soluble in water (1:10) and soluble in alcohol (1:35).
     Incompatible with acids, fixed alkalies and ferric salts.

  ACTION AND USES: Resembles sodium benzoate in its
  action but is more irritant and has no advantage over it.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.), in solution


=Ammonii Bromidum (Ammon. Brom.), Ammonium Bromide, U.S.P.=--NH{4}Br.

     A white, odorless powder with a pungent saline taste. Incompatible
     with nitrous ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Those of the bromides; more irritant
  than potassium bromide, over which it has no advantage.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.) in solution.

_Elixir Ammonii Bromidi (Elix. Ammon. Brom.), Elixir of Ammonium
Bromide, N.F._--Ammonium bromide (8.5%), syrup, distilled water and
aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 5 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm.

_Elixir Trium Bromidorum (Elix. Tri. Brom.), Elixir of Three Bromides,
N.F._--Ammonium bromide, potassium bromide and sodium bromide (each 8%),
with cudbear and compound elixir of almond. Absolute alcohol content
about 4 per cent.

  USES: An irrational bromide mixture, as there is no good
  evidence that the bases influence the bromide action
  materially.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=*Ammonii Carbonas (Ammon. Carb.), Ammonium Carbonate, U.S.P.=--A
mixture of ammonium bicarbonate and ammonium carbamate, yielding about
31 per cent. of NH{3}.

     White, hard, translucent masses, with a strong ammoniacal odor and
     a sharp, ammoniacal taste. Very soluble in water; alcohol dissolves
     the carbamate and leaves the bicarbonate.

  ACTION AND USES: Alkaline and nauseant liquefying
  expectorant used in cough mixtures; also as reflex "diffusible"
  stimulant in smelling salts.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (U.S.P.) in solution.

_Mistura Pectoralis Stokes (Mist. Pect. Stokes), Stokes' Expectorant,
N.F._--Ammonium carbonate (1.75%), fluidextracts of senega and squill
(each 3.5%), camphorated tincture of opium (17.5%), water and syrup of
tolu. Absolute alcohol content about 10 per cent.

  USES: Irrational expectorant mixture.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_*Spiritus Ammoniae Aromaticus (Sp. Ammon. Arom.), Aromatic Spirit of
Ammonia, U.S.P._--Ammonium carbonate (3.4%), ammonia water (9%) and oils
of lemon, lavender and myristica in alcohol and distilled water.
Absolute alcohol content about 68 per cent.

  USES: Useful aromatic alkali and carminative in flatulence,
  colic, etc.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Ammonii Chloridum (Ammon. Chlor.), Ammonium Chloride,
U.S.P.=--NH{4}Cl.

     A white, odorless powder, with a saline taste. Freely soluble in
     water (1:2.6) and soluble in alcohol (1:100).

  ACTION AND USES: Liquefying expectorant; used in cough
  mixtures, and in the treatment of inflammation of the air-passages.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (U.S.P.), in solution or
  lozenges.

_Mistura Ammonii Chloridi (Mist. Ammon. Chlor.), Mixture of Ammonium
Chloride, N.F._ (Mistura Solvens Simplex).--Ammonium chloride (2.5%) and
pure extract of glycyrrhiza in water.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Trochisci Ammonii Chloridi (Troch. Ammon. Chlor.), Troches of Ammonium
Chloride, U.S.P._--Each troche contains ammonium chloride (0.1 Gm.) with
extract of glycyrrhiza, tragacanth and sugar, flavored with syrup of
tolu.


=Ammonii Citras, Ammonium Citrate.=

_Liquor Ammonii Citratis (Liq. Ammon. Cit.), Solution of Ammonium
Citrate, N.F._--Ammonium citrate (14.47%) in water.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Ammonii Hypophosphis (Ammon. Hypophos.), Ammonium Hypophosphite,
N.F._--NH{4}H{2}PO{2}.

     Colorless plates or white powder, odorless, with a saline, bitter
     taste. Very soluble in water (1:1) and soluble in alcohol (1:20).

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to but without material
  advantage over ammonium chloride.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (N.F.).

_Syrupus Ammonii Hypophosphitis (Syr. Ammon. Hypophos.), Syrup of
Ammonium Hypophosphite, N.F._--Ammonium hypophosphite (3.5%) and diluted
hypophosphorous acid, flavored with compound spirit of vanillin, in
water, glycerin and syrup.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Ammonii Iodidum (Ammon. Iod.), Ammonium Iodide, U.S.P.=--NH{4}I.

     White, odorless powder, with a saline taste. Freely soluble in
     water (1:0.6), in alcohol (1:3.7) and in glycerin (1:1.5).

  ACTION AND USES: Those of the iodides. More irritant
  and less stable than sodium or potassium iodide, over
  which it has no advantage.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (U.S.P.), in solution.

_Linimentum Ammonii Iodidi (Lin. Ammon. Iod.), Liniment of Ammonium
Iodide, N.F._--Ammonium iodide (about 0.5%) with oil of rosemary, oil of
lavender, camphor, ammonia water and alcohol.

  USES: Irrational preparation.


=Ammonii Phosphas (Ammon. Phos.), Ammonium Phosphate, N.F.=--A mixture
of (NH{4}){2}HPO{4} and NH{4}H{2}PO{4}.

     Colorless crystals or white powder. Freely soluble in water (1:4),
     but insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to but without advantage over
  sodium phosphate.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (N.F.).


=Ammonii Salicylas (Ammon. Salicyl.), Ammonium Salicylate, U.S.P.=

     White, odorless crystals or powder with a bitterish taste. Very
     soluble in water (1:1) and in alcohol (1:3). Incompatible with
     acids and fixed alkalies.

  ACTION AND USES: Those of salicylates; without advantage
  over sodium salicylate.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.), in solution.


=Ammonii Valeras (Ammon. Valer.), Ammonium Valerate, U.S.P.= (Ammonium
Valerianate).--Of variable composition.

     White plates, with a valerian odor and a sharp, sweetish taste.
     Very soluble in water (1:0.3) and in alcohol (1:0.6).

  ACTION AND USES: Sedative in hysteria, depending on the
  valeric odor. Not very effective.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Ammonii Valeratis (Elix. Ammon. Valer.), Elixir of Ammonium
Valerate, N.F._ (Elixir Ammonii Valerianatis, N.F. III).--Ammonium
valerate (3.5%) in red elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 20 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm. The alcohol content
  should be borne in mind.


=Amygdala Dulcis (Amygd. Dulc.), Sweet Almond, U.S.P.=

  ACTION AND USES: Demulcent, especially as cosmetic.

_Emulsum Amygdalae (Emuls. Amygd.), Emulsion of Almond, U.S.P._ (Milk of
Almond).--Sweet almond, acacia, sugar and water.


=*Amylis Nitris (Amyl. Nitris), Amyl Nitrite, U.S.P.=--Not less than 80
per cent. C{5}H{11}NO{2} (chiefly iso-amyl nitrite).

     A yellowish liquid, with a fruity odor and a pungent, aromatic
     taste. Very volatile; almost insoluble in water, but miscible with
     alcohol or ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Prompt vasodilator, used especially
  in spasms of angina pectoris, asthma and general convulsions.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.), by inhalation.


=*Amylum (Amyl.), Starch, U.S.P.= (Corn Starch).

  ACTION AND USES: Dusting powder and diluent.

_Glyceritum Amyli (Glycer. Amyl.), Glycerite of Starch, U.S.P._--Starch
(10%) and water (10%) in glycerin.

  USES: Emollient and excipient.


=Anethol (Anethol), Anethol, N.F.=--The chief constituent of oil of
anise and oil of fennel.

     A colorless or yellowish liquid, with a sweet taste and an odor of
     anise; solid below 20 C. Almost insoluble in water, but freely
     soluble in alcohol or ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Carminative, etc. Similar to but
  without advantage over oil of anise.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (N.F.).

_Elixir Anisi (Elix. Anis.), Elixir of Anise, N.F._--Anethol, oil of
fennel, spirit of bitter almond, alcohol, syrup and water. Absolute
alcohol content about 23 per cent.

  USES: Carminative and flavor.

  DOSAGE: For infants, 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=Angelicae Fructus (Angel. Fruct.), Angelica Fruit, N.F.= (Angelica
Seed).

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic stomachic and carminative;
  without advantage over gentian.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).


=Angelicae Radix (Angel. Rad.), Angelica Root, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Stimulating expectorant; without
  advantage over tolu.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Angelicae Radicis (Fldext. Angel. Rad.), Fluidextract of
Angelica Root, N.F._--Angelica root (100%). Absolute alcohol content
about 85 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Anisum (Anis.), Anise, U.S.P.= (Aniseed).

  ACTION AND USES: Carminative. (See =Oleum Anisi=).


=*Antimonii et Potassii Tartras (Antim. et Pot. Tart.), Antimony and
Potassium Tartrate, U.S.P.= (Antimonyl Potassium Tartrate, Tartrated
Antimony, Tartar Emetic).

     A white, odorless powder with a sweet, metallic taste. Soluble in
     water (1:12) and in glycerin (1:15); insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Nauseant expectorant and emetic.
  Emetic doses and the prolonged use of expectorant doses
  are somewhat dangerous. Externally, a pustulant.

  DOSAGE: Expectorant, 0.005 Gm. or 1/12 grain (U.S.P.),
  in solution. It is best to begin with small doses (0.001 Gm.
  or 1/60 grain) which may be repeated hourly, care being
  taken to avoid too great depression.

_Vinum Antimonii (Vin. Antimon.), Wine of Antimony, N.F._--Antimony and
potassium tartrate (0.4%), in water and sherry wine. Absolute alcohol
content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=Antimonii Oxidum (Antim. Oxid.), Antimony Oxide, N.F.=--Antimonous
oxide, Sb{2}O{3}.

     A white or grayish-white, odorless, tasteless powder. Insoluble in
     water and in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete nauseant, emetic and
  cathartic. Action uncertain and possibly toxic.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (N.F.).

_Pulvis Antimonialis (Pulv. Antimon.), Antimonial Powder, N.F._ (James'
Powder).--Antimonous oxide (33%) and precipitated calcium phosphate.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (N.F.).


=Antimonium Sulphuratum (Antim. Sulphurat.), Sulphurated Antimony, N.F.=
(Antimonium Oxysulphuratum, Kermes Mineral).--Chiefly antimony
trisulphide, Sb{2}S{3}.

     A red-brown, odorless, tasteless powder. Insoluble in water and in
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Mineral cathartic, without advantage
  over calomel. Has no special action on the bile, as was
  formerly supposed.

_Pilulae Antimonii Compositae (Pil. Antimon. Co.), Compound Pills of
Antimony, N.F._ (Plummer's Pills).--Each pill contains sulphurated
antimony and mild mercurous chloride (each 0.04 Gm. or 2/3 grain),
guaiac (0.08 Gm. or 1-1/3 grains), and castor oil.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).


=*Antipyrina (Antipyr.), Antipyrine, U.S.P.= (Phenazone,
Phenyldimethylpyrazolon).

     White, odorless powder, with a slightly bitter taste. Freely
     soluble in water (1:1) and in alcohol (1:1.3).

  ACTION AND USES: Antipyretic and analgesic, similar to
  acetanilid.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (U.S.P.), in solution,
  given with even greater caution than acetanilid and
  acetphenetidin


=Apii Fructus (Apii Fruct.), Celery Fruit, N.F.= (Celery Seed).

  ACTION AND USES: Domestic emmenagogue, depending
  for its action on the volatile oil.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Apii Fructi (Fldext. Apii Fruct.), Fluidextract of
Celery Fruit, N.F._--Celery fruit (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
85 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Apocynum (Apocyn.), Apocynum, N.F.= (Canadian Hemp).--Rhizome and
roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Cardiac tonic of digitalis group;
  unreliable as to rate of absorption.

  DOSAGE: 0.75 Gm. or 12 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Apocyni (Fldext. Apocyn.), Fluidextract of Apocynum,
N.F._ (Fluidextract of Canadian Hemp).--Apocynum (100%). Absolute
alcohol content about 50 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.75 Cc. or 12 minims (N.F.).


=*Apomorphinae Hydrochloridum (Apomorph. Hydrochl.), Apomorphine
Hydrochloride, U.S.P.= (Apomorphine Chloride).

     White powder, becoming greenish on exposure to light and air,
     odorless and with a slightly bitter taste. Soluble in water (1:50)
     and in alcohol (1:50).

  ACTION AND USES: Prompt, centrally acting emetic,
  especially adapted for hypodermic administration. Rarely
  used as nauseant expectorant.

  DOSAGE: Expectorant 0.003 Gm. or 1/20 grain (U.S.P.).
  Probably too large; 0.004 Gm. or 1/15 grain is said to have
  produced death in a person enfeebled by chronic bronchitis.
  From 0.001 Gm. to 0.002 Gm., or 1/60 to 1/30 grain, repeated
  once an hour or once in two hours, is safer. Emetic, by mouth
  (hypodermic administration is better), 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain
  (U.S.P.). Emetic, hypodermic, 0.005 Gm. or 1/12 grain
  (U.S.P.). This may be repeated at ten-minute intervals
  until effective, but it should be remembered that in some
  cases apomorphin produces toxic effects without causing
  vomiting.


=*Aqua (Aqua), Water, U.S.P.=--H{2}O.

  ACTION AND USES: Solvent. The ingestion of large
  amounts is a very valuable eliminative measure.

_*Aqua Destillata (Aq. Dest.), Distilled Water, U.S.P._--Water obtained
by distillation.

_Aqua Destillata Sterilisata (Aq. Dest. Steril.), Sterilized Distilled
Water, U.S.P._--Should be used within forty-eight hours after its
preparation.


=AQUAE AROMATICAE, AROMATIC WATERS.=--The official aromatic waters are
aqueous solutions of volatile substances, usually volatile oils. They
are used as vehicles for the more active water-soluble drugs. For
preparations included in this list see under the names of the principal
constituents. For the following, see under the names of the respective
oils: Aqua Amygdalae Amarae, Aqua Foeniculi, Aqua Menthae Piperitae and
Aqua Menthae Viridis.


=Aralia (Aralia), Aralia, N.F.= (American Spikenard, Spignet).--Rhizome
and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete irritant, diaphoretic and
  "alterative." Probably without value.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Araliae (Fldext. Aral.), Fluidextract of Aralia,
N.F._--Aralia (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=*Argenti Nitras (Arg. Nit.), Silver Nitrate, U.S.P.=--AgNO{3}.

     Colorless plates, darkening on exposure to light in the presence of
     organic matter; odorless; strongly caustic and having a bitter,
     metallic taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.4) and soluble in
     alcohol (1:30). Incompatible especially with chlorides and organic
     matter.

  ACTION AND USES: Externally as a caustic, antiseptic
  and germicide; internally as an astringent.

  DOSAGE: 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.), diluted or in
  kaolin pills. The concentrations of solutions for local use
  vary from 0.01 to 10 per cent., according to the sensitiveness
  of the surface and the degree of action desired. Distilled
  water should be used in making the solutions.

_*Argenti Nitras Fusus (Arg. Nit. Fus.), Molded Silver Nitrate, U.S.P._
(Fused Silver Nitrate, Lunar Caustic).--AgNO{3} toughened by the
addition of a small proportion of silver chloride.

     White, hard pencils or cones.


=Argenti Oxidum (Arg. Oxid.), Silver Oxide, U.S.P.=--Ag{2}O.

     A heavy, odorless, brownish-black powder with a metallic taste.
     Only slightly soluble in water; insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Astringent in gastric ulcer. Probably
  inefficient.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).


=Arnica (Arnic.), Arnica, U.S.P.= (Arnica Flowers).

  ACTION AND USES: Feeble rubefacient. Still used externally
  to some extent in the form of a tincture mixed with
  water as an evaporating lotion. The chief active ingredient
  of the tincture is probably its alcohol.

_Fluidextractum Arnicae (Fldext. Arnic.), Fluidextract of Arnica,
N.F._--Arnica (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

_Tinctura Arnicae (Tr. Arnic.), Tincture of Arnica, U.S.P._--Arnica
(20%) in diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 46 per cent.


=Arseni Iodidum (Arsen. Iod.), Arsenous Iodide, U.S.P.= (Arsenic
Iodide).--AsI{3}.

     An orange-red, odorless powder. Soluble in water (1:12) with
     partial decomposition; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of arsenic trioxide,
  over which it has no advantage.

  DOSAGE: 0.005 Gm. or 1/12 grain (U.S.P.).

_*Liquor Arseni et Hydrargyri Iodidi (Liq. Arsen. et Hydrarg. Iod.),
Solution of Arsenous and Mercuric Iodide, U.S.P._ (Donovan's
Solution).--Arsenous iodide and red mercuric iodide (each 1%) in water.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Cc. or 1-1/2 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Arseni Trioxidum (Arsen. Triox.), Arsenic Trioxide, U.S.P.= (Arsenous
Acid, Arsenous Oxide, White Arsenic).--As{2}O{3}.

     Amorphous, glassy masses or white, crystalline masses or powder.
     Slowly soluble in water (about 1:100), slightly soluble in alcohol
     and ether and freely soluble in glycerine. Readily dissolved by
     hydrochloric acid or by alkaline solutions.

  ACTION AND USES: Believed to modify nutrition. Used
  as tonic in anemias, nervous diseases, etc., in skin diseases
  and in some forms of malaria. Externally, a mild escharotic,
  but the danger of poisoning prevents its general use.
  Likely to produce nephritis. A very common poison.

  DOSAGE: 0.002 Gm. or 1/30 grain (U.S.P.), in pills or solutions.

_*Liquor Acidi Arsenosi (Liq. Acid. Arsen.), Solution of Arsenous Acid,
U.S.P._ (Hydrochloric Solution of Arsenic, "Solution of Arsenic
Chloride").--Arsenic trioxide (1%) in diluted hydrochloric acid (5%) and
water.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims.


=*Asafoetida (Asafoet.), Asafetida, U.S.P.= (Gum Asafetida).--A gum
resin.

     Should be 60% soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a carminative and also in the
  treatment of hysteria, the action being psychic.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.), in pills.

_Emulsum Asafoetidae (Emuls. Asafoet.), Emulsion of Asafetida, U.S.P._
(Milk of Asafetida).--Asafetida (4%) in water.

  USES: Used especially as enema in tympanites.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Pilulae Asafoetidae (Pil. Asafoet.), Pills of Asafetida, U.S.P._--Each
pill contains asafoetida (0.2 Gm. or 3 grains), and soap.

  DOSAGE: 2 pills (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Asafoetidae (Tr. Asafoet.), Tincture of Asafetida,
U.S.P._--Asafetida (20%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 81
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).


=Asarum (Asar.), Asarum, N.F.= (Canada Snake-Root. Wild
Ginger).--Rhizome.

  ACTION AND USES: Carminative and flavor; similar to
  but without advantage over ginger.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Syrupus Asari Compositus (Syr. Asar. Co.), Compound Syrup of Asarum,
N.F._--Asarum (6.2%), fluidextract of ipecac (0.3%), alcohol, cochineal
and potassium carbonate in syrup.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Asclepias (Asclep.), Asclepias, N.F.= (Pleurisy Root).

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete domestic remedy for pleurisy,
  also used as diaphoretic. Probably without value.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Asclepiadis (Fldext. Asclepiad.), Fluidextract of
Asclepias, N.F._--Asclepias (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=*Aspidium (Aspidium), Aspidium, U.S.P.= (Male Fern).--The rhizome of
certain ferns.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a teniacide in the form of
  oleoresin.

_*Oleoresina Aspidii (Oleores. Aspid.), Oleoresin of Aspidium, U.S.P._
(Oleoresin of Male Fern).

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (total dose in a day, U.S.P.),
  which may be given singly or in repeated, divided
  doses, at intervals of fifteen minutes, in capsules containing
  0.3 Gm. or 5 grains, or in emulsion. Larger doses may be
  given to robust persons. Special caution is necessary in
  giving it to anemic or debilitated persons. The patient
  should be prepared by a light diet or fasting for twenty-four
  hours. The drug should be given early in the morning,
  preceded by a saline cathartic, and the last dose followed
  in three hours by a saline laxative. Caution:--Castor
  oil or other fixed oils should not be used in connection
  with oleoresin of aspidium, as they favor the absorption
  of the active principle.


=Aspidosperma (Aspidosp.), Aspidosperma, U.S.P.= (Quebracho).--A bark.

  ACTION AND USES: Has been recommended in dyspneic
  conditions. Value doubtful.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Aspidospermatis (Fldext. Aspidosp.), Fluidextract of
Aspidosperma, U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Quebracho).--Aspidosperma (100%).
Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).


=*Atropina (Atrop.), Atropine, U.S.P.=--An alkaloid obtained from
belladonna and some other plants of the nightshade family.

     A white, odorless powder. Slightly soluble in water (1:455), but
     freely soluble in alcohol (1:2).

  ACTION AND USES: Atropine and the related alkaloids
  paralyze the parasympathetic endings. They are used
  especially as mydriatics and cycloplegics, to suppress secretions,
  as in gastric hyperacidity, and to quicken the heart,
  regulate peristalsis, lessen bronchial spasm, etc.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 mg. or 1/120 grain (U.S.P.).

_Oleatum Atropinae (Oleat. Atrop.), Oleate of Atropine, N.F._--Atropine
(2%), in alcohol, oleic acid and olive oil.


=*Atropinae Sulphas (Atrop. Sulph.), Atropine Sulphate, U.S.P.=

     White, odorless powder. Very soluble in water (1:0.4) and in
     alcohol (1:5).

  DOSAGE: 0.5 mg. or 1/120 grain (U.S.P.).


=Aurantii Amari Cortex (Aurant. Amar. Cort.), Bitter Orange Peel,
U.S.P.=

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic bitter stomachic, used principally
  as a flavoring.

_Fluidextractum Aurantii Amari (Fldext. Aurant. Amar.), Fluidextract of
Bitter Orange Peel, U.S.P._--Bitter orange peel (100%). Absolute alcohol
content about 60 per cent.

_Tinctura Aurantii Amari (Tr. Aurant. Amar.), Tincture of Bitter Orange
Peel, U.S.P._--Bitter orange peel (20%) in alcohol and water. Absolute
alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Vinum Aurantii Compositum (Vin. Aurant. Co.), Compound Wine of Orange,
N.F._ (Elixir Aurantiorum Compositum, Compound Elixir of
Orange).--Bitter orange peel, absinthium, menyanthes, cascarilla, Saigon
cinnamon and gentian, extracted with potassium carbonate in sherry wine.
Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  USES: Objectionable alcoholic "bitter."

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Aurantii Dulcis Cortex (Aurant Dulc. Cort.), Sweet Orange Peel, U.S.P.=

  ACTION AND USES: Flavoring agent.

_Syrupus Aurantii (Syr. Aurant.), Syrup of Orange, U.S.P._--Tincture of
sweet orange peel in syrup.

_Tinctura Aurantii Dulcis (Tr. Aurant. Dulc.), Tincture of Sweet Orange
Peel, U.S.P._--Sweet orange peel from fresh fruit (50%) in alcohol.
Absolute alcohol content about 83 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).


=Aurantii Flores, Bitter Orange Flowers.=

  ACTION AND USES: Flavoring agent.

_Aqua Aurantii Florum (Aq. Aurant. Flor.), Orange Flower Water,
U.S.P._--Stronger orange flower water in water.

_Aqua Aurantii Florum Fortior (Aq. Aurant. Flor. Fort.), Stronger Orange
Flower Water, U.S.P._--Prepared by distillation of bitter orange flowers
with water. Must be free from mucilaginous growths.

_Syrupus Aurantii Florum (Syr. Aurant. Flor.), Syrup of Orange Flowers,
U.S.P._--Sugar in orange flower water.


=Auri et Sodii Chloridum (Aur. et Sod. Chlor.), Gold and Sodium
Chloride, U.S.P.=--Equal parts of AuCl{3} and NaCl.

     An orange-yellow, odorless, deliquescent powder with a saline,
     metallic taste. Very soluble in water.

  ACTION AND USES: Preparations of gold have been
  employed in medicine for the most varied conditions without
  any real evidence of usefulness.

  DOSAGE: 0.005 Gm. or 1/12 grain (U.S.P.).


=*Balsamum Peruvianum (Bals. Peruv.), Balsam of Peru, U.S.P.= (Peru
Balsam).

     Dark brown, viscid liquid, with a vanilla-like odor and a bitter,
     acrid taste. Soluble in alcohol or chloroform; only partially
     soluble in ether or petroleum benzin; practically insoluble in
     water.

  ACTION AND USES: Externally in the form of ointments
  or alcoholic solutions as a stimulant to indolent wounds
  and ulcers and in the treatment of scabies.


=*Balsamum Tolutanum (Bals. Tolu.), Balsam of Tolu, U.S.P.= (Tolu
Balsam).

     Yellowish-brown or brown, plastic solid, becoming brittle when old,
     dried or exposed to cold, and having a vanilla-like odor and a
     mild, aromatic taste. Insoluble in water but soluble in alcohol,
     chloroform and ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Has been recommended as an expectorant;
  used chiefly in the form of the syrup, which is little
  more than a pleasantly flavored vehicle.

_*Syrupus Tolutanus (Syr. Tolu.), Syrup of Tolu, U.S.P._--Tincture of
tolu (5%) in syrup.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Tolutana (Tr. Tolu.), Tincture of Tolu, U.S.P._--Balsam of
tolu (20%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 85 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=Baptisia (Baptis.), Baptisia, N.F.= (Wild Indigo Root).

  ACTION AND USES: Without any definite known action;
  formerly used in typhoid fever and diseases showing similar
  symptoms.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Baptisiae (Fldext. Baptis.), Fluidextract of Baptisia,
N.F._--Baptisia (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=*Belladonnae Folia (Bellad. Fol.), Belladonna Leaves, U.S.P.= (Deadly
Nightshade Leaves, Belladonnae Folium, P.I.).--Yield not less than 0.3
per cent. of mydriatic alkaloids.

  ACTION AND USES: Those of the hyoscyamine and atropine
  (which see) contained therein.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_*Emplastrum Belladonnae (Emp. Bellad.), Belladonna Plaster,
U.S.P._--Extract of belladonna leaves (30%), yielding about 0.37 per
cent. of alkaloids.

  ACTION AND USES: Applied in the treatment of rheumatic
  and similar pains.

_*Extractum Belladonnae Foliorum (Ext. Bellad. Fol.), Extract of
Belladonna Leaves, U.S.P._--One Gm. extract represents about 4 Gm.
belladonna leaves and yields about 1.25 per cent. of alkaloids. Two
forms: pilular extract of belladonna leaves and powdered extract of
belladonna leaves.

  DOSAGE: 0.015 Gm. or 1/4 grain (U.S.P.).

_*Tinctura Belladonnae Foliorum (Tr. Bellad. Fol.), Tincture of
Belladonna Leaves, U.S.P._ (Belladonnae Tinctura, P.I.)--Belladonna
leaves (10%) yielding about 0.03 per cent. of alkaloids in alcohol.
Absolute alcohol content about 47 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.75 Cc. or 12 minims (U.S.P.).

_*Unguentum Belladonnae (Ung. Bellad.), Belladonna Ointment,
U.S.P._--Pilular extract of belladonna leaves (10%) in diluted alcohol,
hydrous wool fat and benzoinated lard.


=Belladonnae Radix (Bellad. Rad.), Belladonna Root, U.S.P.= (Deadly
Nightshade Root).--Yields not less than 0.45 per cent. of mydriatic
alkaloids.

  ACTION AND USES: Those of the hyoscyamine and atropine
  (which see) contained therein.

  DOSAGE: 0.045 Gm. or 3/4 grain (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Belladonnae Radicis (Fldext. Bellad. Rad.), Fluidextract
of Belladonna Root, U.S.P._--Belladonna root (100%) yielding about 0.45
per cent. of alkaloids. Absolute alcohol content about 75 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.05 Cc. or 1 minim (U.S.P.).

_Linimentum Belladonnae (Lin. Bellad.), Belladonna Liniment,
U.S.P._--Fluidextract of belladonna root (about 95%) and camphor (5%).
Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  USES: A mildly analgesic and rubefacient application.


=Benzaldehydum (Benzaldehyd.), Benzaldehyde, U.S.P.=--Produced
synthetically or obtained from oil of bitter almonds.

     A colorless or yellowish liquid, with a bitter-almond odor and a
     burning, aromatic taste. Slightly soluble in water; miscible with
     alcohol, ether, and fixed or volatile oils.

  ACTION AND USES: Flavoring agent.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Cc. or 1/2 minim (U.S.P.).


=Benzinum Purificatum (Benzin. Purif.), Purified Petroleum Benzin,
U.S.P.= (Petroleum Ether).

     A clear, colorless liquid, with an ethereal or faint petroleum
     odor; highly inflammable. Practically insoluble in water, freely
     soluble in alcohol and miscible with ether, chloroform, volatile
     oils and fixed oils with the exception of castor oil.

  ACTION AND USES: Pharmaceutic solvent.


=*Benzoinum (Benzoin.), Benzoin, U.S.P.= (Gum Benjamin).--A balsamic
resin.

  ACTION AND USES: Used locally to promote healing, and
  in inhalations as an expectorant.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Benzoini (Tr. Benz.), Tincture of Benzoin, U.S.P._--Benzoin
(20%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 83 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_*Tinctura Benzoini Composita (Tr. Benz. Co.), Compound Tincture of
Benzoin, U.S.P._--Benzoin (10%), aloes (2%), storax (8%), balsam of tolu
(4%), in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  USES: Protective and local stimulant, especially by
  inhalation.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Benzosulphinidum (Benzosulphinid.), Benzosulphinide, U.S.P.=
(Saccharin, Glusidum).

     A white, nearly odorless powder with an intensely sweet taste even
     in dilute solutions. Slightly soluble (1:290) in water and soluble
     (1:31) in alcohol and readily dissolved by ammonia water or by a
     solution of alkali hydroxides or of sodium bicarbonate.

  ACTION AND USES: Sweetening agent in diabetes mellitus;
  about 500 times as sweet as sugar, weight for weight.


=Berberis (Berber.), Berberis, N.F.= (Oregon Grape Root).--Rhizome and
roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Probably similar to, but without
  advantage over, hydrastis.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Berberidis (Fldext. Berberid.), Fluidextract of
Berberis, N.F._--Berberis (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Betaeucainae Hydrochloridum (Betaeucain. Hydrochl.), Betaeucaine
Hydrochloride, U.S.P.= (Eucaine Chloride, Eucaine; also known as
Benzamine Hydrochloride).

     A white, odorless powder. Soluble in water (1:30) and in alcohol
     (1:35).

  ACTION AND USES: Local anesthetic.

  DOSAGE: In a 2 or 3 per cent. solution for the eye or 5
  to 10 per cent. solution for the nose and throat.


=*Betanaphthol (Betanaph.), Betanaphthol, U.S.P.= (Naphthol).

     Colorless or pale buff crystalline laminae or white or yellowish
     powder, with a faint phenol odor and a pungent taste. Only slightly
     soluble in water (1:1000) and very soluble in alcohol (1:0.8).

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic, somewhat stronger than
  phenol and less toxic. Used in skin affections, and as
  intestinal antiseptic and anthelmintic for hookworm.

  DOSAGE: Internally, 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).
  Externally as a 3 to 5 per cent. ointment.

_Pasta Betanaphtholis (Past. Betanaphthol.), Betanaphthol Paste, N.F._
(Lassar's Naphthol Paste).--Betanaphthol (10%) and precipitated sulphur
(50%) in petrolatum and soft soap.

_Petroxolinum Betanaphtholis (Petrox. Betanaphthol.), Betanaphthol
Petroxolin, N.F._ (Betanaphthol Petrox).--Betanaphthol (10%) in liquid
petroxolin.


=Bismuthi Betanaphtholas (Bism. Betanaph.), Bismuth Betanaphthol,
U.S.P.= (Bismuth Betanaphtholate; also sold as Orphol).--Of somewhat
varying composition.

     A buff-colored or grayish-brown, nearly odorless, tasteless powder.
     Nearly insoluble in water or alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as an intestinal antiseptic, being
  decomposed into its constituents in the intestine, where it
  exerts the effects of bismuth salts and of betanaphthol.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).


=Bismuthi et Ammonii Citras (Bism. et Ammon. Cit.), Bismuth and Ammonium
Citrate, U.S.P.= (Bismuth Ammoniocitrate).

     Shining, pearly or translucent, odorless scales or white powder,
     with a metallic taste. Very soluble in water and sparingly soluble
     in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Somewhat astringent and irritating;
  should not be used as a substitute for the insoluble salts
  of bismuth. Its use in "bismuth elixirs" is irrational.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (U.S.P.).


=Bismuthi et Sodii Tartras, Bismuth and Sodium Tartrate.=

  USES: An irrational method of administering bismuth.

_Elixir Bismuthi (Elix. Bismuth.), Elixir of Bismuth, N.F._--Glycerite
of bismuth (12.5%), in glycerin, water and aromatic elixir. Absolute
alcohol content about 10 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri et Bismuthi (Elix. Cinchon. Ferr.
et Bism.), Elixir of Cinchona Alkaloids, Iron and Bismuth, N.F._ (Elixir
Cinchonae, Ferri et Bismuthi, N.F. III, Elixir of Calisaya, Alkaloidal,
with Iron and Bismuth).--Glycerite of bismuth (6.5%), elixir of
cinchona, alkaloids and iron (about 87%) and water. Absolute alcohol
content about 17 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Glyceritum Bismuthi (Glycer. Bismuth.), Glycerite of Bismuth, N.F._--A
solution of bismuth and sodium tartrate.

_Liquor Bismuthi (Liq. Bism.), Solution of Bismuth, N.F._--Glycerite of
bismuth (12.5%), in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 12
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm. (N.F.).


=Bismuthi Oxidum, Bismuth Oxide.=

_Magma Bismuthi (Magma Bism.), Bismuth Magma, U.S.P._ (Milk of
Bismuth).--A suspension in water of bismuth hydroxide and bismuth
subcarbonate, forming a thick, white opaque liquid.

  USES: Used similarly to bismuth subcarbonate, over
  which it has no advantage.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).


=*Bismuthi Subcarbonas (Bism. Subcarb.), Bismuth Subcarbonate,
U.S.P.=--Of varying chemical composition.

     White or nearly white, odorless, tasteless powder. Insoluble in
     water or alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used like other insoluble salts of
  bismuth as a protective and healing agent against wounds,
  diarrheas, etc., and in x-ray work.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.) in powders or
  cachets or in suspension (best form)


=*Bismuthi Subgallas (Bism. Subgall.), Bismuth Subgallate, U.S.P.=
(Dermatol).--A basic bismuth gallate of varying chemical composition.

     Bright yellow, odorless, tasteless powder. Insoluble in water or
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of bismuth subcarbonate,
  over which it has no advantage.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Bismuthi Subnitras (Bism. Subnit.), Bismuth Subnitrate, U.S.P.=--Basic
bismuth nitrate of varying chemical composition.

     A heavy, white, odorless, almost tasteless powder. Almost insoluble
     in water and insoluble in alcohol. In aqueous mixtures,
     incompatible with alkali carbonates because of the liberation of
     nitric acid.

  ACTION AND USES: Somewhat more astringent than the
  subcarbonate, because of the liberation of nitric acid.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.). Preferably
  administered as a powder or as cachets.


=Bismuthi Subsalicylas (Bism. Subsalicyl.), Bismuth Subsalicylate,
U.S.P.=--Basic bismuth salicylate, of varying chemical composition.

     A white or nearly white, odorless, tasteless powder. Almost
     insoluble in water or alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Protective and astringent like other
  insoluble salts of bismuth, over which it has no marked
  advantage.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).


=Boldo (Boldo), Boldo, N.F.= (Boldo Leaves).

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic, perhaps somewhat diuretic.
  No well defined indications for its use.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Boldi (Fldext. Boldi), Fluidextract of Boldo,
N.F._--Boldo (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (N.F.).


=Brayera (Brayer.), Brayera, N.F.= (Kousso, Cusso).--Flowers.

  ACTION AND USES: Teniacide; without advantage over
  aspidium or pelletierine.

  DOSAGE: 15 Gm. or 4 drachms (N.F.).

_Infusum Brayerae (Inf. Brayer.), Infusion of Brayera, N.F._--Brayera
(6%) in water.

  DOSAGE: 250 Cc. or 8 fluidounces (N.F.).


=Bromoformum (Bromof.), Bromoform, U.S.P.=--CHBr{3}.

     A heavy, clear, colorless liquid, with an ethereal odor and a sweet
     taste resembling that of chloroform. Slightly soluble in water and
     miscible with alcohol, chloroform, ether or fixed or volatile oils.

  ACTION AND USES: Has been recommended as a sedative
  in the treatment of whooping-cough. Opinions differ as to
  its value.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.), preferably dissolved
  in almond oil or dropped on sugar. Bromoform is
  too dense to be dispensed safely with aqueous vehicles.


=Bromum (Bromum), Bromine, N.F.=--Br.

     Heavy, dark, brownish-red, volatile liquid, with a suffocating odor
     resembling that of chlorine. Soluble in water (1:90) and freely
     soluble in alcohol or ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Violent irritant; seldom used in
  medicine.

_Liquor Bromi (Liq. Brom.), Solution of Bromine, N.F._, (Smith's
Solution of Bromine).--Bromine (8.3%), potassium bromide and water.

  USES: Antiseptic and irritant


=Bryonia (Bryon.), Bryonia, N.F.= (Bryony).--Root.

  ACTION AND USES: Drastic resinous cathartic; without
  advantage over jalap. Used in dropsies, pleurisy, neuralgia,
  etc.; of doubtful value.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Tinctura Bryoniae (Tr. Bryon.), Tincture of Bryonia, N.F._--Bryonia
(10%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 90 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Buchu (Buchu), Buchu, U.S.P.= (Buchu Leaves, Short Buchu, Long Buchu).

  ACTION AND USES: At one time largely used as antiseptic
  and diuretic, especially in catarrhal cystitis. Value
  doubtful.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Buchu (Elix. Buchu), Elixir of Buchu, N.F._--Fluidextract of
buchu (12.5%) in alcohol and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content
about 35 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm.

_Elixir Buchu Compositum (Elix. Buchu Co.), Compound Elixir of Buchu,
N.F._--Compound fluidextract of buchu (25%) in aromatic elixir. Absolute
alcohol content about 30 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm.

_Elixir Buchu et Potassii Acetatis (Elix. Buchu et Pot. Acet.), Elixir
of Buchu and Potassium Acetate, N.F._--Potassium acetate (8.5%) and
elixir of buchu. Absolute alcohol content about 30 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm.

_Fluidextractum Buchu (Fldext. Buchu), Fluidextract of Buchu,
U.S.P._--Buchu (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Buchu Compositum (Fldext. Buchu Co.), Compound
Fluidextract of Buchu, N.F._--Buchu (62.5%), cubeb, juniper and uva ursi
(each 12.5%). Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  USES: A needlessly complex diuretic mixture.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Cacao Praeparata (Cacao Praep.), Cocoa, N.F.= (Prepared Cacao, Soluble
Cocoa).

  ACTION AND USES: Beverage and flavor


=Cactus Grandiflorus (Cact. Grand.), Cactus Grandiflorus, N.F.= (Night
Blooming Cereus).--Fresh stems.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in neurotic heart disturbances;
  results probably imaginary. Drug apparently inactive.

_Tinctura Cacti Grandiflori (Tr. Cact. Grand.), Tincture of Cactus
Grandiflorus, N.F._--Cactus grandiflorus (50%) in alcohol. Absolute
alcohol content about 65 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=*Caffeina (Caffein.), Caffeine, U.S.P.= (Theine).--An alkaloid obtained
from coffee or tea.

     White, silky, efflorescent needles, odorless and bitter. Soluble in
     water (1:46) and in alcohol (1:66).

  ACTION AND USES: Diuretic; cardiac, respiratory and
  psychic stimulant. Used as a nerve stimulant in poisoning
  by narcotic drugs and for the relief of headache.
  Widely used to combat the circulatory depression of the
  acute infectious diseases but its value in such conditions is
  uncertain. As a diuretic probably inferior to theobromine.

  DOSAGE: 0.15 Gm. or 2-1/2 grains (U.S.P.), in capsules.

_Caffeina Citrata (Caffein Cit.), Citrated Caffeine, U.S.P._--Caffeine
and citric acid equal parts.

     White, odorless powder, with a slightly bitter, acid taste.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (U.S.P.), in solution or
  capsules.

_Caffeina Citrata Effervescens (Caff. Cit. Eff.), Effervescent Citrated
Caffeine, U.S.P._--Contains anhydrous caffeine (about 2%), with sodium
tartrate and citrate.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.) in water.


=*Caffeinae Sodio-Benzoas (Caff. Sod. Benz.), Caffeine Sodio-Benzoate,
U.S.P.=--Caffeine and sodium benzoate about equal parts.

     White, odorless powder, with a slightly bitter taste. Freely
     soluble in water (1:1.1) and soluble in alcohol (1:30); partly
     soluble in chloroform.

  ACTION AND USES: The form of caffeine usually employed
  for hypodermic administration, since it is freely soluble.

  DOSAGE: By mouth, 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (U.S.P.);
  hypodermic, 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (U.S.P.).


=Caffeinae Sodio-Salicylas (Caff. Sod. Salicyl.), Caffeine
Sodio-Salicylate, N.F.=--Represents equal parts of caffeine and sodium
salicylate.

     White, odorless powder. Freely soluble in water (1:2).

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (N.F.)


=Calamina Praeparata (Calamin. Praep.), Prepared Calamine, N.F.= (Lapis
Calaminaris).--Native zinc carbonate.

     A pink powder. Insoluble in water.

  ACTION AND USES: Protective, similar to zinc oxide,
  over which it has no therapeutic advantage; has the cosmetic
  advantage of being slightly pink.

_Unguentum Calaminae (Ung. Calamin.), Calamine Ointment, N.F._,
(Unguentum Zinci Carbonatis Crudi, Unguentum Calaminare, Turner's
Cerate).--Prepared calamine (17%) in ointment.


=Calcii Bromidum (Calc. Brom.), Calcium Bromide, U.S.P.=--Hydrated
calcium bromide (not less than 84 per cent. of CaBr{2}).

     A white, odorless, deliquescent powder, with a sharp, saline taste.
     Very soluble in water (1:0.7) and in alcohol (1:1.3). Incompatible
     with alkali carbonates and phosphates.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to but more irritant than
  sodium bromide, over which it has ordinarily no advantage,
  although the calcium perhaps increases the sedative action.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains, preferably administered in
  aqueous solutions, being too deliquescent for use in powder
  or cachets.

_Elixir Calcii Bromidi (Elix. Calc. Brom.), Elixir of Calcium Bromide,
N.F._--Calcium bromide (8.5%) diluted hydrobromic acid (0.4%), syrup,
distilled water and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 7
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=*Calcii Carbonas Praecipitatus (Calc. Carb. Praec.), Precipitated
Calcium Carbonate, U.S.P.= (Precipitated Chalk).--CaCO{3}.

     A fine, white, odorless, tasteless powder. Nearly insoluble in
     water and insoluble in alcohol. Decomposed by acids with evolution
     of carbon dioxide.

  ACTION AND USES: Chiefly used as a basis for tooth
  powder. Internally, employed as an antacid in diarrheas,
  etc.; externally in mixtures with cream or oil, has been
  used as an application to burns as an antacid and
  protective.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.), as powder or in
  suspension


=*Calcii Chloridum (Calc. Chlor.), Calcium Chloride, U.S.P.=--Hydrated
calcium chloride (not less than 75 per cent. of CaCl{2}).

     White, hard, deliquescent, odorless masses or granules, with a
     sharp, saline taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.62), and freely
     soluble in alcohol (1:10).

  ACTION AND USES: Used for the oral administration of
  calcium. Employed in hemorrhagic conditions, in which
  it is probably useless. Has also been advised in inflammatory
  conditions of the skin and mucous membranes
  (urticaria, serum-rashes, hay-fever, etc.).

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.), in solution.


=Calcii Glycerophosphas (Calc. Glycerophos.), Calcium Glycerophosphate,
U.S.P.= (Calcium Glycerinophosphate).--CaC{3}H{7}O{6}P.

     White, odorless, almost tasteless powder. Soluble in water (1:50)
     and insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly believed to be a tonic, and
  used especially in neurasthenia, to improve the nutrition of
  the nervous system. There is no reliable evidence that it
  has any value.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.), in solution.

_Elixir Calcii et Sodii Glycerophosphatum (Elix. Calc. et Sod.
Glycerophos.), Elixir of Calcium and Sodium Glycerophosphates, N.F._
(Elixir Glycerophosphatum N.F. III).--Solution of sodium
glycerophosphate (2.5%), calcium glycerophosphate (0.875%), phosphoric
acid (0.8%), in glycerin, aromatic elixir and distilled water. Absolute
alcohol content about 7 per cent.

  USES: An irrational and inefficient "tonic" mixture.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Calcii Hypophosphis (Calc. Hypophos.), Calcium Hypophosphite,
U.S.P.=--Ca(PH{2}O{2}){2}.

     Colorless crystals or white powder, odorless and having a nauseous,
     bitter taste. Freely soluble in water (1:6.5) and insoluble in
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: The hypophosphites were introduced
  as of special value in tuberculosis; later they were used as
  general reconstructive tonics, but there is no experimental
  or reliable clinical evidence that the hypophosphite radical
  has any value as such. Calcium hypophosphite must be
  regarded merely as a means of administering calcium.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.) in syrups.

_Elixir Calcii Hypophosphitis (Elix. Calc. Hypophos.), Elixir of Calcium
Hypophosphite, N.F._--Calcium hypophosphite (3.5%) in aromatic elixir.
Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Hypophosphitum (Elix. Hypophos.), Elixir of Hypophosphites,
N.F._--Calcium hypophosphite (5.25%), sodium hypophosphite and potassium
hypophosphite (each 1.75%) in water, glycerin, compound spirit of
cardamom and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 12 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Hypophosphitum et Ferri._--See under =Ferri Hypophosphis=.

_Liquor Hypophosphitum (Liq. Hypophos.), Solution of Hypophosphites,
N.F._--Calcium hypophosphite (3.5%), sodium hypophosphite (2%) and
potassium hypophosphite (1.75%) in water.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Liquor Hypophosphitum Compositus (Liq. Hypophos. Co.), Compound
Solution of Hypophosphites, N.F._--Calcium hypophosphite and potassium
hypophosphite (each 0.85%), sodium hypophosphite (0.22%), ferric
hypophosphite (0.44%) and manganese hypophosphite (0.22%), quinine
hypophosphite (0.22%), strychnine hypophosphite (0.007%) and potassium
citrate in orange flower water, glycerin and water.

  USES: Complex and irrational mixture.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Syrupus Calcii et Sodii Hypophosphitum (Syr. Calc. et Sod. Hypophos.),
Syrup of Calcium and Sodium Hypophosphites, N.F._--Calcium hypophosphite
and sodium hypophosphite (each 3.5%), in sugar and water.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm. (N.F.).

_Syrupus Calcii Hypophosphitis (Syr. Calc. Hypophos.), Syrup of Calcium
Hypophosphite, N.F._--Calcium hypophosphite (3.5%) in sugar and water.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Syrupus Hypophosphitum (Syr. Hypophos.), Syrup of Hypophosphites,
U.S.P._--Calcium hypophosphite (4.5%), potassium hypophosphite and
sodium hypophosphite (each 1.5%) in glycerin and syrup.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Hypophosphitum Compositus (Syr. Hypophos. Co.), Compound Syrup
of Hypophosphites, N.F._--Calcium hypophosphite (3.5%), potassium
hypophosphite and sodium hypophosphite (each 1.75%), ferric
hypophosphite and manganese hypophosphite (each 0.225%), quinine
(0.11%), strychnine hypophosphite (0.0123%) and sodium citrate (0.375%)
in glycerin and syrup.

  USES: Antiquated, complex and irrational "tonic."

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Calcii Iodidum, Calcium Iodide.=

_Syrupus Calcii Iodidi (Syr. Calc. Iodid.), Syrup of Calcium Iodide,
N.F._--Represents calcium iodide (8.75%) in syrup.

  USES: Superfluous, whether regarded as a calcium preparation
  or as an iodide preparation.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims


=*Calcii Lactas (Calc. Lact.), Calcium Lactate,
U.S.P.=--Ca(C{3}H{5}O{3}){2} + 5H{2}O.

     White, odorless, practically tasteless masses or powder. Soluble in
     water (1:20) and almost insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used for the characteristic action of
  calcium; less irritating and therefore better adapted to
  hypodermic administration than calcium chloride (which
  see).

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.), in solution


=Calcii Lactophosphas (Calc. Lactophos.), Calcium Lactophosphate,
N.F.=--A mixture of calcium lactate and calcium acid lactate with
calcium acid phosphate.

     White, odorless powder. Soluble in water; almost insoluble in
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to but without advantage
  over the lactate. Not adapted to hypodermic use.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (N.F.).

_Elixir Calcii Lactophosphatis (Elix. Calc. Lactophos.), Elixir of
Calcium Lactophosphate, N.F._--Calcium lactophosphate (3%) in compound
spirit of orange, syrup, alcohol and distilled water. Absolute alcohol
content about 19 per cent. Small and probably inefficient quantities of
calcium.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri et Calcii Lactophosphatis (Elix.
Cinchon., Ferr. et Calc. Lactophos.), Elixir of Cinchona Alkaloids,
Iron and Calcium Lactophosphate, N.F._--(Elixir Cinchonae, Ferri et
Calcii Lactophosphatis, N.F. III, Elixir of Calisaya, Iron and
Lactophosphate of Lime).--Syrup of calcium lactophosphate (50%),
potassium citrate (3%) and elixir of cinchona alkaloids and iron.
Absolute alcohol content about 12 per cent.

  USES: An irrational mixture, supposed to present seven
  active ingredients.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Syrupus Calcii Lactophosphatis (Syr. Calc. Lactophos.), Syrup of
Calcium Lactophosphate, U.S.P._--Made by dissolving precipitated calcium
carbonate (2.5%) in lactic acid (6%), phosphoric acid (3.6%) and a syrup
containing orange flower water.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Calcii Lactophosphatis et Ferri (Syr. Calc. Lactophos. et
Ferr.), Syrup of Calcium Lactophosphate and Iron, N.F._--Ferrous lactate
and potassium citrate (each 0.85%) and syrup of calcium lactophosphate
(about 99%).

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Calcii Phosphas Praecipitatus (Calc. Phos. Praec.), Precipitated
Calcium Phosphate, N.F.=--Ca{3}(PO{4}){2}.

     A bulky, white, odorless, tasteless powder. Practically insoluble
     in water and insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Precipitated calcium phosphate has
  been given in the form of powders or mixtures for its
  action as a calcium salt, which is similar to but without
  advantage over the action of the carbonate. Because of its
  insolubility it is now seldom used.

  USES: Similar to but without advantage over the
  carbonate.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Syrupus Calcii Hydrochlorophosphatis (Syr. Calc. Hydrochlorophos.),
Syrup of Calcium Hydrochlorophosphate, N.F._ (Syrupus Calcii
Chlorhydrophosphatis, N.F. III).--Precipitated calcium phosphate (1.75%)
flavored with tincture of lemon peel and dissolved in hydrochloric acid,
water and syrup.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Calcii Sulphidum Crudum (Calc. Sulphid. Crud.), Crude Calcium Sulphide,
U.S.P.= (Calx Sulphurata, U.S.P. VIII, Sulphurated Lime).--CaS (not less
than 55%).

     A pale gray or yellowish powder, with a faint hydrogen sulphide
     odor and a nauseous, alkaline taste. Very slightly soluble in cold
     water, insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Externally, depilatory similar to
  barium sulphide. Internally has been used to arrest and
  prevent suppuration especially in boils, carbuncles and
  pustular acne. There is no reliable evidence of its therapeutic
  usefulness.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.), in solution.

_Liquor Calcis Sulphuratae (Liq. Calc. Sulphurat.), Solution of
Sulphurated Lime, N.F._ (Solution of Oxysulphuret of Calcium, Fleming's
Solution, Vleminckx' Solution, Vleminckx' Lotion).--A solution of
calcium polysulphides and calcium thiosulphate produced by boiling
together lime, sulphur and water.

  USES: Depilatory.


=Calendula (Calend.), Calendula, N.F.= (Marigold, Calendula Flowers).

  ACTION AND USES: Locally, mild irritant, without material
  advantage over diluted alcohol. Internally, no definite
  indications for its use.

_Fluidextractum Calendulae (Fldext. Calend.), Fluidextract of Calendula,
N.F._--Calendula (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

_Tinctura Calendulae (Tr. Calend.), Tincture of Calendula,
N.F._--Calendula (20%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 90 per
cent.


=Calumba (Calumb.), Calumba, U.S.P.= (Columba, Columbo, Colombo).--A
root.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a simple bitter and stomachic.
  It appears to have no advantage over other bitters, for
  instance, gentian.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.); usually given in
  the form of the tincture.

_Fluidextractum Calumbae (Fldext. Calumb.), Fluidextract of Calumba,
N.F._--Calumba (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 65 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Tinctura Calumbae (Tr. Calumb.), Tincture of Calumba, U.S.P._--Calumba
(20%) in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.)


=*Calx (Calx), Calcium Oxide, U.S.P.= (Lime, Quicklime).--CaO.

     Hard, white, odorless masses with a caustic taste, forming with
     water calcium hydroxide, which is slightly soluble in water (1:84),
     insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: As liquor calcis (an aqueous solution
  of calcium hydroxide), used as an antacid and mild alkali.
  As milk of lime (a mixture of calcium hydroxide and
  water), frequently used as a disinfectant.

_*Linimentum Calcis (Lin. Calc.), Lime Liniment, U.S.P._ (Carron
Oil).--Lime water (50%) and linseed oil.

  USES: Topical application, used especially for burns.

_*Liquor Calcis (Liq. Calc.), Solution of Calcium Hydroxide, U.S.P._
(Lime Water).--Ca(OH){2} (not less than 0.14%).

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms.


=*Calx Chlorinata (Calx Chlorin.), Chlorinated Lime, U.S.P.= ("Chloride
of Lime").--A compound of calcium chloride and hypochlorite containing
not less than 30 per cent. of available chlorine.

     A white or grayish-white powder having a chlorine-like odor and a
     repulsive saline taste. Partially soluble in water or alcohol.
     Decomposed by acids with liberation of chlorine.

  ACTION AND USES: Disinfectant, especially for excreta.
  Should be used liberally and left in contact for at least
  one hour. Widely used for treating contaminated drinking
  water.


=Cambogia (Cambog.), Gamboge, U.S.P.= (Pipe Gamboge).--A gum resin.

     Odorless, grayish-orange-brown pieces or bright yellow powder, with
     a very acrid taste. Not less than 65 per cent. soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: A powerful irritant hydragogue
  cathartic; not often employed alone. Usually administered
  in combination with other drugs.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (U.S.P.), in pills.


=*Camphora (Camph.), Camphor, U.S.P.=--A volatile solid obtained from
the camphor tree.

     Tough, white, translucent masses with a pungent odor and taste.
     Slightly soluble in water and freely soluble in alcohol,
     chloroform, ether and fixed or volatile oils.

  ACTION AND USES: Used hypodermically to stimulate the
  circulation and respiration in collapse. Opinions are
  divided as to its efficiency. Locally, applied as a mild
  irritant and antiseptic.

  DOSAGE: By mouth 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (U.S.P.).
  Hypodermic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.), as 10 per
  cent. solution in oil.

_*Aqua Camphorae (Aq. Camph.), Camphor Water, U.S.P._--A saturated
solution of camphor in water.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Ceratum Camphorae (Cerat. Camph.), Camphor Cerate, N.F._--Camphor (2%),
with cottonseed oil, white wax, white petrolatum and benzoinated lard.

_Emplastrum Fuscum Camphoratum (Emp. Fusc. Camph.), Camphorated Brown
Plaster, N.F._ (Camphorated Motherplaster).--Camphor (1%), red oxide of
lead, olive oil and yellow wax.

_*Linimentum Camphorae (Lin. Camph.), Camphor Liniment, U.S.P._
(Camphorated Oil).--Camphor (20%) in cottonseed oil.

  USES: Mild counterirritant. Note: This preparation, as
  found in drug stores, should never be used hypodermically.

_Mistura Camphora Acida._--See under =Opium=.

_Mistura Camphorae Aromatica._--See under =Oleum Lavandulae=.

_*Spiritus Camphorae (Sp. Camph.), Spirit of Camphor, U.S.P._--Camphor
(10%), in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 90 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Unguentum Camphorae (Ung. Camph.), Camphor Ointment, N.F._--Camphor
(22%) in white wax and lard.

_Unguentum Fuscum (Ung. Fusc.), Brown Ointment, N.F._ (Unguentum Matris,
Mother's Salve).--Camphorated brown plaster (50%) olive oil and prepared
suet.


=Camphora Monobromata (Camph. Monobrom.), Monobromated Camphor, U.S.P.=

     Colorless crystals or white powder, with a mild camphoraceous odor
     and taste. Freely soluble in alcohol (1:6.5); almost insoluble in
     water.

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly recommended as a sedative
  and hypnotic but now seldom used. Value doubtful.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (U.S.P.).


=Canella (Canell.), Canella, N.F.=--A bark.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete aromatic bitter, without
  advantage over gentian.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.)


=Cannabis (Cannab.), Cannabis, U.S.P.= (Cannabis Indica, U.S.P.
VIII).--Flowering tops of _Cannabis sativa_ (or var. _indica_).

  ACTION AND USES: A narcotic poison, producing a mild
  delirium. Used in sedative mixtures, but of doubtful value.
  Also employed to color corn remedies.

_Extractum Cannabis (Ext. Cannab.), Extract of Cannabis,
U.S.P._--Assayed biologically by producing incoordination in dogs.

  DOSAGE: 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.). Physicians
  who prescribe extract of cannabis should specify the
  biologically assayed preparation.

_Fluidextractum Cannabis (Fldext. Cannab.), Fluidextract of Cannabis,
U.S.P._--Cannabis (100%). Assayed biologically by producing
incoordination in dogs. Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Cc. or 1-1/2 minims (U.S.P.). Physicians
  who prescribe fluidextract of cannabis should specify the
  biologically assayed preparation.

_Tinctura Cannabis (Tr. Cannab.), Tincture of Cannabis, U.S.P._
(Tinctura Cannabis Indicae, U.S.P. VIII).--Cannabis (10%) in alcohol.
Assayed biologically by producing incoordination in dogs. Absolute
alcohol content about 90 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.75 Cc. or 12 minims (U.S.P.). Those physicians
  who prescribe tincture of cannabis should specify
  the biologically assayed preparation.


=*Cantharis (Canthar.), Cantharides, U.S.P.= (Spanish Flies, Russian
Flies).--A beetle.

  ACTION AND USES: Externally, rubefacient and vesicant.
  Internally, genito-urinary irritant, often producing serious
  nephritis. Its internal use is probably never justified.

_*Ceratum Cantharidis (Cerat. Canthar.), Cantharides Cerate, U.S.P._
(Blistering Cerate).--Cantharides (35%) with turpentine, glacial acetic
acid, yellow wax, rosin and benzoinated lard.

_Collodium Cantharidatum (Collod. Canth.), Cantharidal Collodion,
U.S.P._ (Blistering Collodion, Vesicating Collodion).--The glacial
acetic acid acetone extract from cantharides (60%) in flexible
collodion.

_Emplastrum Cantharidis (Emp. Canthar.), Cantharides Plaster,
U.S.P._--Cantharides cerate spread on rosin plaster. Each square
centimeter of spread plaster contains 0.1 Gm. of cantharides cerate.

  USES: Convenient form for applying cantharides as a
  vesicant. Requires from six to eight hours to produce a
  blister. May produce poisoning by absorption through the
  skin.

_*Tinctura Cantharidis (Tr. Canthar.), Tincture of Cantharides, U.S.P._
(Cantharidis Tinctura P.I.).--Cantharides (10%) in alcohol. Absolute
alcohol content about 90 per cent.


=*Capsicum (Capsic.), Capsicum, U.S.P.= (Cayenne Pepper, African
Chillies).--Fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Carminative and rubefacient; also
  stomachic, especially in alcoholic gastritis (as the tincture).

_Emplastrum Capsici (Emp. Capsic.), Capsicum Plaster, U.S.P._--Oleoresin
of capsicum spread on rubber plaster. Each 15 square cm. of spread
plaster contains 0.25 Gm. of oleoresin of capsicum.

_Oleoresina Capsici (Oleores. Capsic.), Oleoresin of Capsicum,
U.S.P._--Highly irritant.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.).

_*Tinctura Capsici (Tr. Capsic.), Tincture of Capsicum,
U.S.P._--Capsicum (10%) in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content
about 88 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Capsici et Myrrhae (Tr. Capsic. et Myrrh.), Tincture of
Capsicum and Myrrh, N.F._ (Hot Drops, Thomsonian Number Six.)--Capsicum
(3%) and myrrh (12%) in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content
about 85 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Caramel (Caram.), Caramel, N.F.= (Saccharum Ustum, Burnt Sugar
Coloring).

     A dark brown, syrupy, somewhat bitter liquid. Soluble in water and
     in diluted alcohol; insoluble in 80 per cent. alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in pharmacy as a brown
  coloring agent.

_Tinctura Caramellis, Tincture of Caramel, N.F._--Caramel in alcohol and
water. Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.


=*Carbo Ligni (Carbo Lig.), Wood Charcoal, U.S.P.= (Charcoal).--Powdered
wood charcoal.

  ACTION AND USES: Absorbent of gases and dissolved substances.
  Used internally against digestive disorders and
  vegetable poisons but of doubtful value. Locally employed
  as a deodorant, for fetid ulcers, usually in the form of
  a poultice.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains, in powder or suspension.

_Trochisci Carbonis Ligni (Troch. Carb. Lig.), Troches of Charcoal,
N.F._--Charcoal with tragacanth, sugar and vanillin.

  DOSAGE: 1 troche (N.F.)


=*Cardamomi Semen (Cardam. Sem.), Cardamom Seed, U.S.P.= (Cardamomum,
U.S.P. VIII).

  ACTION AND USES: Used as flavor and carminative. Frequently
  added to purgatives, as in the compound extract
  of colocynth, with the object of diminishing griping.

_*Tinctura Cardamomi (Tr. Cardam.), Tincture of Cardamom,
U.S.P._--Cardamom seed (15%) in diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol
content about 46 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Cardamomi Composita (Tr. Cardamom. Co.), Compound Tincture of
Cardamom, U.S.P._--Cardamom seed, Saigon cinnamon, caraway and cochineal
in alcohol, glycerin and water. Absolute alcohol content about 46 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).


=Carminum (Carmin.), Carmine, N.F.=--From cochineal.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in pharmacy as a red coloring
  agent.

_Liquor Carmini (Liq. Carmin.), Solution of Carmine, N.F._--Carmine in
ammonia water, glycerin and water.


=Caro, Beef.=

_Extractum Carnis (Ext. Carnis), Extract of Beef, N.F._ (Beef
Extract).--Residue from evaporation of beef broth.

  ACTION AND USES: Stimulant and flavor; not a nutrient
  tonic, as was believed at one time. The "wines" are without
  real value and can easily be misused as beverages.

_Vinum Carnis (Vin. Carn.), Wine of Beef, N.F._ (Beef and
Wine).--Extract of beef (3%) in water, syrup, alcohol, compound spirit
of orange and sherry wine. Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Vinum Carnis et Ferri (Vin. Carn. et Ferr.), Wine of Beef and Iron,
N.F._ (Beef, Wine and Iron).--Extract of beef (3%), iron and ammonium
citrate, water, syrup, alcohol, compound spirit of orange and sherry
wine.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Carum (Carum), Caraway, U.S.P.= (Carawayseed).

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic carminative. Similar to
  anise and fennel.


=*Caryophyllus (Caryoph.), Clove, U.S.P.= (Cloves).

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic carminative and counterirritant.

_Pulvis Aromaticus Rubefaciens (Pulv. Arom. Rubefac.), Rubefacient Spice
Powder, N.F._ (Replacing Emplastrum Aromaticum, N.F. III).--Clove,
Saigon cinnamon, ginger and capsicum.


=*Cascara Sagrada (Case. Sagr.), Cascara Sagrada, U.S.P.= (Rhamnus
Purshiana, U.S.P. VIII).--A bark.

  ACTION AND USES: Laxative, acting mainly on the colon.
  Widely used for habitual constipation. Has little tendency
  to produce secondary constipation.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Cascarae Sagradae (Elix. Cascar. Sagr.), Elixir of Cascara
Sagrada, N.F._ (Elixir Rhamni Purshianae, N.F. III).--Aromatic
fluidextract of cascara sagrada (50%) and aromatic elixir. Absolute
alcohol content about 22 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Elixir Cascarae Sagradae Compositum (Elix. Cascar. Sagr. Co.), Compound
Elixir of Cascara Sagrada, N.F._ (Elixir Rhamni Purshianae Co., N.F.
III, Laxative Elixir).--Aromatic fluidextract of cascara sagrada
(12.5%), fluidextract of senna (7.5%), fluidextract of juglans (6.5%)
and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 24 per cent.

  USES: Needlessly complicated laxative.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_*Extractum Cascarae Sagradae (Ext. Cascar. Sagr.), Extract of Cascara
Sagrada, U.S.P._ (Extractum Rhamni Purshianae, U.S.P. VIII, Powdered
Extract of Cascara Sagrada).--One Gm. extract represents 3 Gm. cascara
sagrada.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_*Fluidextractum Cascarae Sagradae (Fldext. Cascar. Sagr.), Fluidextract
of Cascara Sagrada, U.S.P._ (Fluidextractum Rhamni Purshianae, U.S.P.
VIII).--Cascara sagrada (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 20 per
cent. Bitter, unpleasant taste.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_*Fluidextractum Cascarae Sagradae Aromaticum (Fldext. Cascar. Sagr.
Arom.), Aromatic Fluidextract of Cascara Sagrada, U.S.P._
(Fluidextractum Rhamni Purshianae Aromaticum, U.S.P. VIII).--Sweetened
and flavored fluidextract. Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.
Not so bitter, but less effective than the plain fluidextract.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Fluidglyceratum Cascarae Sagradae (Fldglycer. Cascar. Sagr.),
Fluidglycerate of Cascara Sagrada, N.F._--Cascara sagrada (100%) in
water and glycerin.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).

_Fluidglyceratum Cascarae Sagradae Aromaticum (Fldglycer. Cascar. Sagr.
Arom.), Aromatic Fluidglycerate of Cascara Sagrada, N.F._--Cascara
sagrada (75%) and fluidglycerate of glycyrrhiza (25%) with oils of
fennel, clove and cinnamon, in water and glycerin.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=Cascarilla (Cascarill.), Cascarilla, N.F.= (Sweetwood Bark, Sweet
Bark).

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic bitter, without advantage
  over gentian.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.)


=Cassia Fistula (Cass. Fist.), Cassia Fistula, N.F.= (Purging
Cassia).--Dried fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete laxative, without advantage
  over senna.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.)


=Castanea (Castan.), Castanea, N.F.= (Chestnut Leaves).

  ACTION AND USES: Astringent; no definite indications
  for its use.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Castaneae (Fldext. Castan.), Fluidextract of Chestnut
Leaves, N.F._--Chestnut leaves (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 15
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=CATAPLASMATA, POULTICES.=--Poultices are soft solid preparations used
for the purpose of applying heat and moisture to localized areas of the
body. Poultices may also be made the means of applying counterirritant
drugs.


=Cataria (Catar.), Catnep, N.F.= (Catmint).--Leaves and flowering tops.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic carminative, without advantage
  over peppermint.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Catariae (Fldext. Catar.), Fluidextract of Catnep,
N.F._--Catnep (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 35 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Caulophyllum (Caulophyl.), Caulophyllum, N.F.= (Blue Cohosh, Papoose
Root, Squaw Root).--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Said to be diuretic and emmenagogue;
  has not been adequately studied.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Caulophylli (Fldext. Caulophyl.), Fluidextract of
Caulophyllum, N.F._--Caulophyllum (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (N.F.).


=Centaurium (Centaur.), Centaury, N.F.=--Flowering plant.

  ACTION AND USES: Bitter stomachic; without advantage
  over gentian. Also used in "female remedies," but probably
  useless.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).


=*Cera Alba (Cer. Alb.), White Wax, U.S.P.=--Yellow wax bleached.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in the preparation of emollient
  ointments, and to raise the melting point of mixtures of
  oils and fats.

_Ceratum (Cerat.), Cerate, U.S.P._ (Simple Cerate).--White wax (30%) and
benzoinated lard.


=*Cera Flava (Cer. Flav.), Yellow Wax, U.S.P.= (Beeswax).

  ACTION AND USES: Used in the making of plasters and
  of ointments in which the color is not objectionable.


=CERATAE, CERATES.=--Cerates are solid ointment-like preparations
containing wax to prevent them from becoming soft at ordinary room
temperature.


=Cerevisiae Fermentum Compressum (Cerev. Ferm. Compr.), Compressed
Yeast, N.F.=--The commercial compressed yeast.

  ACTION AND USES: For use in making fermented milk
  (Lac Fermentatum), which see under =Lac Vaccinum=.


=Cerii Oxalas (Cerii Oxal.), Cerium Oxalate, U.S.P.=--A mixture of the
oxalates of cerium, didymium, lanthanum, and other associated elements.

     White or pinkish, odorless, tasteless powder. Insoluble in water,
     alcohol and ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly used for the treatment of
  chronic vomiting but probably without value.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (U.S.P.), in powders,
  cachets or capsules.


=Cetaceum (Cetac.), Spermaceti, U.S.P.=--A solid fat from the sperm
whale.

     White, nearly odorless, unctuous masses, with a bland, mild taste.
     Insoluble in water and nearly insoluble in cold alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a component of cerates and
  cold creams.


=CHARTAE, PAPERS.=--Papers are pieces of unsized paper saturated with or
pieces of hard-surfaced papers coated with a medicinal substance.


=Chimaphila (Chimaph.), Chimaphila, N.F.= (Pipsissewa).--Leaves.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete; no definite indications for
  its use. Has been described as "tonic, astringent, diuretic."

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Chimaphilae (Fldext. Chimaphil.), Fluidextract of
Chimaphila, N.F._--Chimaphila (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Chionanthus (Chionanth.), Chionanthus, N.F.= (Fringe Tree Bark).--Bark
of the root.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete; no definite indications for
  its use. Formerly used by eclectics and homeopaths in
  hepatic disorders and syphilis.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Chionanthi (Fldext. Chionanth.), Fluidextract of
Chionanthus, N.F._--Chionanthus (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.)


=Chirata (Chirat.), Chirata, N.F.= (Chiretta).--Plant.

  ACTION AND USES: Bitter stomachic, similar to and without
  advantage over gentian.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Chiratae (Fldext. Chirat.), Fluidextract of Chirata,
N.F._--Chirata (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=Chloral Camphoratum (Chloral Camph.), Camphorated Chloral, N.F.=--Equal
parts of hydrated chloral and camphor.

     An oily liquid with a camphoraceous odor.

  ACTION AND USES: Local rubefacient and analgesic


=*Chloralum Hydratum (Chloral. Hydrat.), Hydrated Chloral, U.S.P.=
("Chloral," Chloral Hydrate).--CCl{3}.CHO + H{2}O.

     Colorless, transparent crystals, with an aromatic, penetrating odor
     and a bitterish, caustic taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.25) and
     in alcohol (1:1.3).

  ACTION AND USES: A reliable hypnotic in moderate
  doses, inducing a condition closely resembling that of
  normal sleep. Used for the relief of insomnia and nervousness,
  and for the control of convulsions and spasms.
  Should be used with special caution in cases of weakened
  heart or blood vessels. Continued use is likely to produce
  a habit.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.), in solution.
  Decomposed by alkalies; should not be dispensed in liquids
  containing both bromides and alcohol.

_Mistura Chloralis et Potassii Bromidi Composita (Mist. Chloral. et Pot.
Brom. Co.), Compound Mixture of Chloral and Potassium Bromide, N.F._
(Chloral and Bromide Compound).--Hydrated chloral (20%), potassium
bromide (20%), extract of hyoscyamus (0.2%) in water. The formula calls
for cannabis but this is filtered out.

  USES: Similar in composition to the widely advertised
  nostrum Bromidia and equally irrational and objectionable.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=*Chloroformum (Chlorof.), Chloroform, U.S.P.=--CHCl{3}.

     A clear, colorless liquid, with an ethereal odor and a burning,
     sweet taste. Slightly soluble (1:210) in water and miscible with
     alcohol, ether, petroleum benzin or fixed or volatile oils.
     Decomposed by alkalies.

  ACTION AND USES: General anesthetic, administered by
  inhalation. Locally, a penetrating and fairly powerful
  irritant. Frequently used in the form of liniments. Taken
  by mouth in small doses, carminative, anodyne and antiseptic.
  Larger doses are anthelmintic but dangerous. A
  direct cardiac depressant.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Cc. or 5 minims (U.S.P.), diluted.

_*Aqua Chloroformi (Aq. Chlorof.), Chloroform Water, U.S.P._--A
saturated solution of chloroform in water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_*Linimentum Chloroformi (Lin. Chlorof.), Chloroform Liniment,
U.S.P._--A mixture of chloroform (30%) and soap liniment. Fairly active
counterirritant.

_Mistura Chloroformi et Morphinae Composita (Mist. Chlorof. et Morph.
Co.), Compound Mixture of Chloroform and Morphine, N.F._ (Mistura
Chloroformi et Cannabis Indicae Composita, N.F. III, Chloroform
Anodyne).--Morphine sulphate (0.25%), chloroform (12.5%), ether (3.25%),
tincture of cannabis (18.5%), tincture of capsicum, oil of peppermint,
glycerin, water and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  USES: An evident imitation of the nostrum sold as
  chloranodyne, and equally irrational and objectionable.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Petroxolinum Chloroformi Camphoratum (Petrox. Chlorof. Camph.),
Camphorated Chloroform Petroxolin, N.F._ (Camphor and Chloroform
Petrox).--Chloroform (25%), camphor (25%) and liquid petroxolin.

_*Spiritus Chloroformi (Sp. Chlorof.), Spirit of Chloroform,
U.S.P._--Chloroform (6%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 90
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=Chlorum, Chlorine.=--Cl.

_Liquor Chlori Compositus (Liq. Chlor. Co.), Compound Solution of
Chlorine, N.F._ (Chlorine Water).--A solution containing chlorine,
oxides of chlorine and hydrochloric acid made by treating potassium
chlorate with hydrochloric acid and dissolving the gases produced in
water.

  USES: Antiseptic.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Chondrus (Chondrus), Chondrus, U.S.P.= (Irish Moss,
Carrageen).--Plant.

  ACTION AND USES: Demulcent and lubricant, possessing
  no advantages over other gums, acacia, for instance.

_Gelatinum Chondri (Gelat. Chondr.), Chondrus Gelatin, N.F._ (Irish Moss
Gelatin).--Obtained by extraction with hot water and evaporation to
semifluid consistency.

_Mucilago Chondri (Mucil. Chondr.), Mucilage of Chondrus, N.F._
(Mucilage of Irish Moss).--Chondrus (3%) in water.


=*Chromii Trioxidum (Chrom. Triox.), Chromium Trioxide, U.S.P.=
("Chromic Acid," Chromic Anhydride).--CrO{3}.

     Dark purplish-red, odorless, deliquescent crystals. Very soluble in
     water (1:0.6). Decomposes, sometimes with dangerous violence, when
     brought into contact with organic solvents like alcohol and
     glycerin. Incompatible with most organic substances.

  ACTION AND USES: A powerful oxidizing agent and
  caustic. Its action is somewhat difficult to control.


=*Chrysarobinum (Chrysarob.), Chrysarobin, U.S.P.=--Neutral principles
from Goa powder.

     Brownish to orange-yellow, tasteless, odorless powder, irritating
     to the mucous membrane. Slightly soluble in alcohol (1:385),
     soluble in chloroform (1:12.5) and very slightly soluble in water.

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic and antiparasitic; a powerful
  irritant to the skin, used chiefly in the treatment of
  psoriasis, trichophytosis and alopecia areata.

_*Unguentum Chrysarobini (Ung. Chrysarobin.), Chrysarobin Ointment,
U.S.P._--Chrysarobin (6%) in benzoinated lard.


=Cimicifuga (Cimicif.), Cimicifuga, U.S.P.= (Black Snake-root, Black
Cohosh, Macrotys).--A rhizome.

  ACTION AND USES: One of the class of "domestic medicines"
  that were tried for a great variety of conditions
  (used as "stomachic, antispasmodic, aphrodisiac, diaphoretic,
  diuretic and expectorant"), but which have not been
  found to possess definite value.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Extractum Cimicifugae (Ext. Cimicif.), Extract of Cimicifuga, U.S.P._
(Powdered Extract of Cimicifuga).--One Gm. extract represents 4 Gm.
cimicifuga.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Cimicifuga (Fldext. Cimicif.), Fluidextract of
Cimicifuga, U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Black Cohosh, Fluidextract of Black
Snakeroot).--Cimicifuga (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Cimicifugae Compositus (Syr. Cimicif. Co.), Compound Syrup of
Cimicifuga, N.F._ (Syrupus Actaeae Compositus, N.F. III, Compound Syrup
of Actaea).--Fluidextract of cimicifuga (4%), fluidextract of senega
(2%), fluidextract of ipecac (1%), fluidextract of glycyrrhiza, wild
cherry, sugar and water. Absolute alcohol content about 5 per cent.

  USES: Complex expectorant.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Tinctura Cimicifugae (Tr. Cimicif.), Tincture of Cimicifuga,
N.F._--Cimicifuga (20%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 90
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=*Cinchona (Cinch.), Cinchona, U.S.P.= (Yellow Cinchona, Calisaya Bark,
Yellow Peruvian Bark).--Yields not less than 5 per cent. of alkaloids.

  ACTION AND USES: Astringent bitter tonic.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum and Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum et
Hypophosphitum._--See under =Quininae Sulphas=.

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum et Ferri._--See under =Ferri Phosphas=.

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri, Bismuthi et Strychninae and
Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri et Strychninae._--See under
=Strychninae Sulphas=.

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri et Bismuthi._--See under =Bismuthi
et Sodii Tartras=.

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri et Calcii Lactophosphatis._--See
under =Calcii Lactophosphas=.

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri et Pepsini._--See under
=Pepsinum=.

_Extractum Cinchonae (Ext. Cinchon.), Extract of Cinchona, N.F._--A
hydroalcoholic extract diluted with glucose, yielding about 24 per cent.
of cinchona alkaloids.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Cinchonae (Fldext. Cinchon.), Fluidextract of Cinchona,
U.S.P._--Cinchona (100%) yielding about 4.5 per cent. of alkaloids.
Absolute alcohol content about 65 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Cinchonae Aquosum (Fldext. Cinchon. Aq.), Aqueous
Fluidextract of Cinchona, N.F._--Cinchona (100%), yielding about 5 per
cent. of alkaloids. Absolute alcohol content about 12 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).

_Infusum Cinchonae (Inf. Cinchon.), Infusion of Cinchona,
N.F._--Cinchona (6%), aromatic sulphuric acid (1%) and water.

  DOSAGE: 50 Cc. or 12 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_*Tinctura Cinchonae (Tr. Cinch.), Tincture of Cinchona,
U.S.P._--Cinchona (20%), yielding about 0.9 per cent. of alkaloids; in
alcohol, glycerin and water. Absolute alcohol content about 63 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).


=Cinchona Rubra (Cinch. Rub.), Red Cinchona, U.S.P.= (Red Peruvian
Bark).--Yields not less than 5 per cent. of alkaloids.

  ACTION AND USES: Identical with those of cinchona.
  Used as ingredient of the compound tincture of cinchona.

_*Tinctura Cinchonae Composita (Tr. Cinch. Co.), Compound Tincture of
Cinchona, U.S.P._--Red cinchona (10%), yielding about 0.45 per cent. of
cinchona alkaloids, serpentaria (2%) and bitter orange peel, in
glycerin, alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 64 per cent.

  USES: Aromatic astringent bitter, of high alcoholic
  content; superfluous.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).


=Cinchonidinae Sulphas (Cinchonid. Sulph.), Cinchonidine Sulphate,
U.S.P.=--The sulphate of the alkaloid cinchonidine, obtained from
cinchona bark.

     White, glistening, odorless needles with a very bitter taste.
     Soluble in water (1:65) and in alcohol (1:90).

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly used as a cheap substitute
  for quinine sulphate, over which it possesses no advantage,
  being less efficient and more convulsant.

  DOSAGE: 0.15 Gm. or 2-1/2 grains (U.S.P.).


=Cinchoninae Sulphas (Cinchonin. Sulph.), Cinchonine Sulphate,
U.S.P.=--The sulphate of the alkaloid cinchonine, obtained from cinchona
bark.

     White, lustrous, odorless crystals with a very bitter taste.
     Soluble in water (1:60) and in alcohol (1:12.5).

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of cinchonidine
  sulphate.

  DOSAGE: 0.15 Gm. or 2-1/2 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Cinnamomum Saigonicum (Cinnam. Saigon.), Saigon Cinnamon, U.S.P.=--A
bark.

  ACTION AND USES: Carminative, antiseptic, somewhat
  astringent, occasionally administered in diarrhea.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.), in powder.

_Fluidextractum Aromaticum (Fldext. Aromat.), Aromatic Fluidextract,
U.S.P._--Aromatic powder (100%), extracted with alcohol. Absolute
alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Pulvis Aromaticus (Pulv. Arom.), Aromatic Powder, U.S.P._--Saigon
cinnamon, Jamaica ginger, cardamom seed and nutmeg.

  USES: Carminative.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Pulvis Cretae Aromaticus (Pulv. Cret. Arom.), Aromatic Powder of Chalk,
N.F._--Saigon cinnamon, nutmeg, clove, cardamom seed, prepared chalk and
sugar.

  USES: Antidiarrheic.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Syrupus Cinnamomi (Syr. Cinnam.), Syrup of Cinnamon, N.F._--Saigon
cinnamon, alcohol and syrup.

  USES: Flavoring vehicle.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Tinctura Aromatica (Tr. Arom.), Aromatic Tincture, N.F._--Saigon
cinnamon, Jamaica ginger, galangal, clove, cardamom seed, extracted with
a mixture of alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 63 per
cent.

  USES: Aromatic carminative, complex and without special
  advantage over other carminatives, as, for instance,
  tincture of cardamom.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Tinctura Cinnamomi (Tr. Cinnam.), Tincture of Cinnamon, U.S.P._--Saigon
cinnamon in alcohol, glycerin and water. Absolute alcohol content about
63 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=Cinnamomum Zeylanicum (Cinnam. Zeylan.), Ceylon Cinnamon, U.S.P.=--A
bark.

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of Saigon cinnamon.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.)


=*Cocaina (Cocain.), Cocaine, U.S.P.=--An alkaloid obtained from coca
leaves.

     Large colorless prisms or a white powder; odorless. Slightly
     soluble in water (1:600) and freely soluble in alcohol (1:6.5) and
     in chloroform (1:0.7).

  ACTION AND USES: A local anesthetic, paralyzing the
  peripheral sensory nerves and also contracting the blood
  vessels. Acute systemic poisoning is often caused by its
  local use on mucous membranes. Stimulant to the central
  nervous system, but such use is inadvisable because of
  danger of habit-formation.

  DOSAGE: 0.015 Gm. or 1/4 grain (U.S.P.).

_Oleatum Cocainae (Oleat. Cocain.), Oleate of Cocaine, N.F._--Cocaine
(5%) in alcohol, oleic acid and olive oil.


=*Cocainae Hydrochloridum (Cocain. Hydrochl.), Cocaine Hydrochloride,
U.S.P.= (Cocaine Chloride, Cocainum Hydrochloricum, P.I.).

     Colorless crystals, flaky leaflets or a white powder; odorless.
     Freely soluble in water (1:0.4) and in alcohol (1:3.2), and soluble
     in chloroform (1:12.5). Incompatible with borax, mercuric chloride,
     alkalies and alkali carbonates, phenol, tannic acid, mercuric
     oxide, and soluble silver salts.

  ACTION AND USES: Local anesthetic.

  DOSAGE: 0.015 Gm. or 1/4 grain (U.S.P.). For local anesthesia in 0.2
  to 1.0 per cent. solution when used hypodermatically, and in 1 to 4
  per cent. solution when applied to mucous membranes.


=Cocculus Indicus (Coccul. Ind.), Cocculus Indicus, N.F.= (Fish Berry,
Indian Berry).--A fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Source of picrotoxin. An alcoholic
  extract has been used for destroying pediculi.

_Tinctura Cocculi Indici (Tr. Coccul. Ind.), Tincture of Cocculus
Indicus, N.F._--Cocculus indicus (10%) in diluted alcohol. Absolute
alcohol content about 45 per cent.


=Coccus (Coccus), Cochineal, U.S.P.=--A dried insect.

  ACTION AND USES: Coloring agent.

_Liquor Cocci (Liq. Cocci), Cochineal Color, N.F._--A
glycerin-alcohol-water solution of cochineal.


=Cocillana (Cocillan.), Cocillana, N.F.=--A bark.

  ACTION AND USES: Nauseant expectorant, similar to but
  without advantage over ipecac. The proprietary syrup
  contains heroin.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Cocillanae (Fldext. Cocillan.), Fluidextract of
Cocillana, N.F._--Cocillana (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 60
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=*Codeina (Codein.), Codeine, U.S.P.= (Methylmorphine).--An alkaloid
obtained from opium, or prepared from morphine by methylation.

     Colorless, translucent prisms or a white powder; odorless. Slightly
     soluble in water (1:120) and freely soluble in alcohol (1:2) and in
     chloroform (1:0.5).

  ACTION AND USES: Analgesic, hypnotic and sedative. It
  is perhaps the best modification of morphine for use in
  coughs. As compared with morphine it is less constipating
  and less apt to induce a drug habit. The phosphate and
  sulphate are preferred for hypodermic use.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Terpini Hydratis et Codeinae (Elix. Terpin. Hyd. et Codein.),
Elixir of Terpin Hydrate and Codeine, N.F._--Codeine (0.2%) and elixir
of terpin hydrate. Absolute alcohol content about 42 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.). This dose contains
  about 0.008 Gm. or 1/8 grain of codeine, and about
  0.07 Gm. or 1-1/6 grains of terpin hydrate.


=*Codeinae Phosphas (Codein. Phos.), Codeine Phosphate, U.S.P.=

     White, odorless, efflorescent powder. Freely soluble in water
     (1:2.3) and slightly soluble in alcohol (1:325).

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of codeine; preferred
  for hypodermic use.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.).


=*Codeinae Sulphas (Codein. Sulph.), Codeine Sulphate, U.S.P.=

     White, odorless, efflorescent crystals or powder. Soluble in water
     (1:30) and very slightly soluble in alcohol (1:1280).

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of codeine. Preferred
  for hypodermic injections.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Codeinae (Syr. Codein.), Syrup of Codeine, N.F._--Codeine
sulphate (0.2%) and syrup.

  USES: Superfluous.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Coffea Tosta (Coff. Tost.), Coffee, N.F.= (Roasted Coffee).

  ACTION AND USES: Beverage and flavor.

_Fluidextractum Coffeae (Fldext. Coff.), Fluidextract of Coffee, N.F._
(Fluidextractum Coffeae Tostae, N.F. III).--Coffee (100%). Absolute
alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Colchici Cormus (Colch. Corm.), Colchicum Corm, U.S.P.= (Colchicum
Root).--Yields not less than 0.35 per cent. of colchicine.

  ACTION AND USES: Said to be antineuralgic and analgesic;
  frequently used in the treatment of acute gouty
  attacks and to some extent to ward off such attacks. Full
  doses produce watery stools and abdominal pains.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.), in pills; or
  preferably as the tincture.

_Extractum Colchici Cormi (Ext. Colch. Corm.), Extract of Colchicum
Corm, U.S.P._ (Powdered Extract of Colchicum Corm).--One Gm. extract
represents 4 Gm. colchicum corm and yields about 1.4 per cent. of
colchicine.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Colchici Cormi (Fldext. Colch. Corm.), Fluidextract of
Colchicum Corm, N.F._--Colchicum corm (100%), yielding about 0.35 per
cent. of colchicine. Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (N.F.).

_Vinum Colchici Cormi (Vin. Colchic. Corm.), Wine of Colchicum Corm,
N.F._--Colchicum corm (40%) yielding about 0.14 per cent. of colchicine,
in alcohol and sherry wine. Absolute alcohol content about 30 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.6 Cc. or 10 minims (N.F.).


=*Colchici Semen (Colch. Sem.), Colchicum Seed, U.S.P.= (Colchici Semen
P.I.).--Yields not less than 0.45 per cent. of colchicine.

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of colchicum corm.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Colchici Seminis (Fldext. Colch. Sem.), Fluidextract of
Colchicum Seed, U.S.P._--Colchicum seed (100%), yielding about 0.4 per
cent. of colchicine. Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).

_*Tinctura Colchici Seminis (Tr. Colch. Sem.), Tincture of Colchicum
Seed, U.S.P._ (Colchici Tinctura P.I.).--Colchicum seed (10%), yielding
about 0.04 per cent. of colchicine; in alcohol and water. Absolute
alcohol content about 56 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Vinum Colchici Seminis (Vin. Colch. Sem.), Wine of Colchicum Seed,
N.F._--Fluidextract of colchicum seed (10%), yielding about 0.04 per
cent. of colchicine; in alcohol and sherry wine. Absolute alcohol
content about 35 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Colchicina (Colchicina), Colchicine, U.S.P.=--An alkaloid obtained from
colchicum.

     Pale yellow, odorless scales or powder. Freely soluble in alcohol,
     soluble in water (1:22) and slightly soluble in ether (1:220).

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of colchicum corm.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 mg. or 1/120 grain.


=COLLODIA, COLLODIONS.=--Collodions are solutions of pyroxylin or
soluble gun cotton with medicinal agents, for external application. For
the official collodions see under the names of the principal
ingredients. In particular, for Collodium, see under =Pyroxylin=; for
Collodium Flexible, under =Oleum Ricini=; and for Collodium Stypticum,
under =Acidum Tannicum=.


=*Colocynthis (Colocyn.), Colocynth, U.S.P.= (Colocynth Pulp, Bitter
Apple, Colocynth Apple).

  ACTION AND USES: A powerful irritant hydragogue
  cathartic. Because of its drastic nature it is rarely used
  alone. The various compound pills listed below are needlessly
  complex and therefore irrational. Because of their
  irritant character, they are especially unsuited for continued
  use.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain.

_*Extractum Colocynthidis (Ext. Colocynth.), Extract of Colocynth,
U.S.P._ (Powdered Extract of Colocynth).--One Gm. of extract represents
4 Gm. of colocynth.

  DOSAGE: 0.015 Gm. or 1/4 grain (U.S.P.).

_*Extractum Colocynthidis Compositum (Ext. Colocynth. Co.), Compound
Extract of Colocynth, U.S.P._ (Powdered Compound Extract of
Colocynth).--Extract of colocynth (16%), aloes (50%), resin of scammony
(14%), cardamom seed and soap.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Pilulae Catharticae Compositae (Pil. Cathart. Co.), Compound Cathartic
Pills, U.S.P._--Each pill contains compound extract of colocynth (0.08
Gm. or 1-1/3 grains), mild mercurous chloride (0.06 Gm. or 1 grain),
resin of jalap (0.02 Gm. or 1/3 grain) and gamboge (0.015 Gm. or 1/4
grain).

  DOSAGE: 2 pills (U.S.P.).

_Pilulae Catharticae Vegetabiles (Pil. Cathart. Veget.), Vegetable
Cathartic Pills, N.F._--Each pill contains compound extract of colocynth
(0.06 Gm. or 1 grain), extract of hyoscyamus (0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain),
resin of jalap (0.02 Gm. or 1/3 grain), extract of leptandra and resin
of podophyllum (each 0.015 Gm. or 1/4 grain) with oil of peppermint.

  DOSAGE: 2 pills (N.F.).

_Pilulae Colocynthidis Compositae (Pil. Colocynth. Co.), Compound Pills
of Colocynth, N.F._ (Pilulae Cocciae, Cochia Pills).--Each pill contains
extract of colocynth (0.011 Gm. or 1/6 grain), aloes and resin of
scammony (each 0.13 Gm. or 2 grains), with oil of clove.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Colocynthidis et Hyoscyami (Pil. Colocynth. et Hyoscy.), Pills
of Colocynth and Hyoscyamus, N.F._--Each pill contains extract of
colocynth (0.0065 Gm. or 1/10 grain), aloes, resin of scammony and
extract of hyoscyamus (each 0.097 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains) and oil of clove.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Colocynthidis et Podophylli (Pil. Colocynth. et Podoph.), Pills
of Colocynth and Podophyllum, N.F._--Each pill contains compound extract
of colocynth (0.162 Gm. or 2-1/2 grains) and resin of podophyllum (0.016
Gm. or 1/4 grain) with syrup.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Laxativae Post Partum (Pil. Lax. Post Part.), Post Partum
Laxative Pills, N.F._ (Barker's Post Partum Pills).--Each pill contains
compound extract of colocynth (0.11 Gm. or 1-2/3 grains), Socotrine
aloes (0.055 Gm. or 7/8 grain), extract of nux vomica (0.025 Gm. or 2/5
grain), resin of podophyllum and ipecac (each 0.005 Gm. or 1/12 grain)
and extract of hyoscyamus (0.008 Gm. or 1/8 grain).

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.)


=Condurango (Conduran.), Condurango, N.F.=--A bark.

  ACTION AND USES: Bitter stomachic, introduced especially
  for cancer cachexia, but without advantage over
  gentian.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Condurango (Fldext. Condurango), Fluidextract of
Condurango, N.F._--Condurango (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=CONFECTIONES, CONFECTIONS= (Conserves, Electuaries).--Soft, pasty
solids consisting of active drugs mixed with sugar and honey.


=Conium (Conium), Conium, N.F.= (Poison Hemlock, _Conium
maculatum_).--Unripe fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Source of coniine. Depresses the
  motor system, but has no definite therapeutic indication.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (N.F.).

_Extractum Conii (Ext. Conii), Extract of Conium, N.F._--A
hydro-alcoholic extract diluted with glucose, yielding about 2 per cent.
of coniine.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Conii (Fldext. Conii), Fluidextract of Conium,
N.F._--Conium (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (N.F.).


=Convallariae Flores (Convallar. Flor.), Convallaria Flowers, N.F.=
(Lily-of-the-Valley Flowers).

  ACTION AND USES: Believed to act as a cardiac tonic,
  similar to digitalis, but unreliable.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Convallariae Florum (Fldext. Conval. Flor.),
Fluidextract of Convallaria Flowers, N.F._ (Fluidextractum Convallariae,
N.F. III).--Convallaria flowers (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (N.F.).


=Convallariae Radix (Convallar. Rad.), Convallaria Root, N.F.=
(Lily-of-the-Valley Root).--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Same as the flowers.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Convallariae Radicis (Fldext. Conval. Rad.),
Fluidextract of Convallaria Root, N.F._--Convallaria root (100%).
Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (N.F.).


=*Copaiba (Copaib.), Copaiba, U.S.P.= (Balsam of Copaiba, Copaiva).--An
oleoresin.

     Pale yellow or brownish-yellow, viscid liquid, with an aromatic
     odor and a persistent, bitter, acrid taste. Insoluble in water and
     partly soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: A mild but disagreeable irritant and
  diuretic. Used especially in the treatment of gonorrhea,
  but of doubtful efficiency. The copaiba mixtures as listed
  below were formerly widely used, but are disagreeable,
  irrational and usually inefficient.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Massa Copaibae (Mass. Copaib.), Mass of Copaiba, N.F._ (Solidified
Copaiba).--Copaiba solidified by combination with magnesium oxide.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Mistura Copaibae (Mist. Copaib.), Copaiba Mixture, N.F._ (Lafayette
Mixture).--Copaiba (12.5%), spirit of nitrous ether (12.5%), compound
tincture of lavender, solution of potassium hydroxide in syrup and
mucilage of acacia. Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Mistura Copaibae et Opii (Mist. Copaib. et Opii), Mixture of Copaiba
and Opium, N.F._ (Chapman's Mixture).--Copaiba (25%), tincture of opium
(3.2%), spirit of nitrous ether (25%), and compound tincture of lavender
in mucilage of acacia and water. Absolute alcohol content about 29 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Coptis (Coptis), Coptis, N.F.= (Goldthread).--Plant.

  ACTION AND USES: Bitter stomachic, possessing no
  advantage over gentian.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Coptis (Fldext. Copt.), Fluidextract of Coptis,
N.F._--Coptis (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=CORDIALES, CORDIALS.=--Cordials are sweetened alcoholic liquids


=Coriandrum (Coriand.), Coriander, U.S.P.= (Coriander Seeds).

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic and carminative


=Cornus (Corn.), Cornus, N.F.= (Dogwood Bark).--Bark of the root.

  ACTION AND USES: Without definite indications for its
  use; practically obsolete.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Corni (Fldext. Corni), Fluidextract of Cornus,
N.F._--Cornus (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 35 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.)


=Corydalis (Coryd.), Corydalis, N.F.= (Turkey Corn, Squirrel
Corn).--Tubers.

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly exploited as antiluetic, but
  useless and therefore harmful.

  DOSAGE: 0.65 Gm. or 10 grains (N.F.).

_Elixir Corydalis Compositum (Elix. Coryd. Co.), Compound Elixir of
Corydalis, N.F._--Fluidextract of corydalis, (6%), fluidextract of
stillingia (6%), fluidextract of xanthoxylum (3%), fluidextract of blue
flag (9%), potassium iodide (5%), alcohol and aromatic elixir. Absolute
alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  ACTION AND USES: An irrational and harmful "alterative."

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Corydalis (Fldext. Corydal.), Fluidextract of Corydalis,
N.F._--Corydalis (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 65 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.65 Cc. or 10 minims (N.F.)


=Cotarninae Hydrochloridum (Cotarn. Hydrochl.), Cotarnine Hydrochloride,
U.S.P.= (Cotarnine Chloride; Stypticin).

     Yellow, odorless powder. Freely soluble in water and alcohol,
     yielding yellow solutions.

  ACTION AND USES: Used to check functional uterine
  hemorrhage. The mechanism of its action has not been
  explained, and its efficiency is somewhat questionable.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.)


=Coumarinum (Coumar.), Coumarin, N.F.=

     Colorless, fragrant crystals, with a bitter, burning taste.
     Sparingly soluble in cold water; freely soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Perfume and flavor


=Creosoti Carbonas (Creosot. Carb.), Creosote Carbonate, U.S.P.=--A
mixture of the carbonates of various constituents of creosote, chiefly
guaiacol and cresol.

     An almost colorless, almost tasteless, odorless viscid liquid.
     Insoluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol and miscible with
     chloroform and benzin.

  ACTION AND USES: Passes stomach unchanged; hence is
  not a gastric irritant; decomposed in the intestines; used
  as an intestinal antiseptic.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.)


=*Creosotum (Creosot.), Creosote, U.S.P.= (Creasote).--A mixture chiefly
of guaiacol and cresol, obtained from wood-tar.

     An almost colorless, oily liquid, with a penetrating, smoky odor,
     and a burning, caustic taste. Slightly soluble in water, and
     miscible with alcohol, ether or fixed or volatile oils.

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic; formerly widely used as
  an intestinal antiseptic and externally to some extent as
  an antiseptic dressing.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Cc. or 4 minims (U.S.P.), in capsules.

_Aqua Creosoti (Aq. Creosot.), Creosote Water, U.S.P._--Creosote (1%) in
water.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Petroxolinum Creosoti (Petrox. Creosot.), Creosote Petroxolin, N.F._
(Creosote Petrox).--Creosote (20%), oleic acid and liquid petroxolin.


=*Cresol (Cresol), Cresol, U.S.P.=--A mixture of isomeric cresols,
C{6}H{4}(CH{3})OH. Obtained from coal tar.

     Colorless, yellowish or brownish liquid, darkening with age and
     exposure to light, and having a phenol-like odor. Soluble in water
     (1:50), usually forming a cloudy solution, and miscible with
     alcohol, ether, petroleum benzin or glycerin.

  ACTION AND USES: Action similar to phenol. Used as
  a disinfectant and antiseptic. Approximately four times as
  germicidal as phenol, and no more toxic.

  DOSAGE: 0.05 Cc. or 1 minim (U.S.P.).

_*Liquor Cresolis Compositus (Liq. Cresol. Co.), Compound Solution of
Cresol, U.S.P._--Cresol (50%) with a potassium soap solution.


=Creta Praeparata (Cret. Praep.), Prepared Chalk, U.S.P.= (Drop
Chalk).--A native calcium carbonate.

     White, amorphous, odorless, tasteless powder. Almost insoluble in
     water, insoluble in alcohol. Decomposed and dissolved by dilute
     acids.

  ACTION AND USES: Used internally as a mild alkali, as
  antacid and against diarrhea.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.) as a powder or
  in suspension.

_Mistura Cretae (Mist. Cret.), Chalk Mixture, U.S.P._--Compound chalk
powder (20%) with cinnamon water and water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Pulvis Cretae Aromaticus._--See under =Cinnamomum Saigonicum.=

_Pulvis Cretae Compositus (Pulv. Cret. Co.), Compound Chalk Powder,
U.S.P._--Prepared chalk (30%), with acacia and sugar.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.)


=Crocus (Croc.), Crocus, N.F.= (Saffron).--Stigmas of the flowers.

  ACTION AND USES: Yellow coloring agent without definite
  therapeutic indications. Has been used as "stimulant
  and antispasmodic."

_Tinctura Croci (Tr. Croc.), Tincture of Saffron, N.F._--Saffron (10%)
in diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 45 per cent.


=Cubeba (Cubeb.), Cubeb, U.S.P.= (Cubebs).--Fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly much used internally as
  antiseptic, diuretic and as a stimulant to the genito-urinary
  membranes; also to some extent as a stimulating
  expectorant. Probably of little value.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.). The oleoresin
  is preferred.

_Fluidextractum Cubebae (Fldext. Cubeb.), Fluidextract of Cubeb,
N.F._--Cubeb (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc or 15 minims (N.F.).

_Oleoresina Cubebae (Oleores. Cubeb.), Oleoresin of Cubeb, U.S.P._

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Cubebae (Tr. Cubeb.), Tincture of Cubeb, N.F._--Cubeb (20%) in
alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 90 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Trochisci Cubebae (Troch. Cubeb.), Troches of Cubeb, U.S.P._--Each
troche contains oleoresin of cubeb (0.02 Gm.) with oil of sassafras,
extract of glycyrrhiza and acacia, flavored with syrup of tolu.


=*Cupri Sulphas (Cupr. Sulph.), Copper Sulphate, U.S.P.= (Cupric
Sulphate).--CuSO{4} + 5H{2}O.

     Blue, odorless crystals or powder with a metallic taste. Freely
     soluble in water (1:2.5), and slightly soluble in alcohol (1:500).

  ACTION AND USES: Astringent and in strong solutions
  corrosive. In large doses a gastric and intestinal irritant
  producing violent vomiting and purging. Considered one of
  the best antidotes in phosphorus poisoning.

  DOSAGE: Emetic, 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Mistura Adstringens (Mist. Adstring.), Astringent Mixture, N.F._
(Mistura Adstringens et Escharotica, N.F. III, Villate's Mixture).--A
needlessly complex mixture containing the acetates and sulphates of
copper and zinc in dilute acetic acid solution with lead sulphate in
suspension.


=Cypripedium (Cypriped.), Cypripedium, N.F.= (Lady Slipper
Root).--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: No definite indications for its use.
  Has been described as "tonic, stimulant and diaphoretic."

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Cypripedii (Fldext. Cypriped.), Fluidextract of
Cypripedium, N.F._--Cypripedium (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=Damiana (Damiana), Damiana, N.F.= (Turnera).--Leaves.

  ACTION AND USES: Ingredient of "lost manhood" nostrums;
  mildly irritant, but otherwise probably inert.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Damianae (Fldext. Damian.), Fluidextract of Damiana,
N.F._ (Fluidextractum Turnerae, N.F. III).--Damiana (100%). Absolute
alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=DECOCTA, DECOCTIONS.=--Aqueous preparations made by boiling drugs in
water and straining. They must be freshly made from the drugs.


=Delphinium (Delphin.), Larkspur Seed, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Preparations are used externally to
  destroy pediculi of the hair and of the pubic region.

_Tinctura Delphinii (Tr. Delphin.), Tincture of Larkspur,
N.F._--Larkspur seed (10%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 90
per cent.


=Dextrinum Album (Dext. Alb.), White Dextrin, N.F.=--A variable mixture
of soluble carbohydrates with unconverted starch.

     White, odorless powder, with a sweetish taste. Partly soluble in
     cold water; completely soluble in three parts of water on boiling.

  ACTION AND USES: Substitute for acacia and other gums.

_Pasta Dextrinata (Past. Dextrin.), Dextrinated Paste, N.F._--White
dextrin (33%) in glycerin (33%) and water.

  USES: Basis for dermatologic pastes


=Diacetylmorphina (Diacetylmorph.), Diacetylmorphine, U.S.P.=
(Acetomorphine, Heroin).--An alkaloid prepared from morphine by
acetylization.

     White, odorless powder. Very slightly soluble in water (1:1700) and
     soluble in alcohol (1:31) and in chloroform (1:1.4).

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a respiratory sedative to
  relieve cough. With few exceptions, generally contraindicated
  in pulmonary tuberculosis. Like morphine, but
  more toxic and less valuable for the relief of pain. Is
  habit-forming. See =Morphina=.

  DOSAGE: 0.003 Gm. or 1/20 gr. (U.S.P.).


=Diacetylmorphinae Hydrochloridum (Diacetylmorph. Hydrochl.),
Diacetylmorphine Hydrochloride, U.S.P.= (Diacetylmorphine Chloride;
Heroin Hydrochloride).

     White, odorless, bitter powder. Freely soluble (1:2) in water and
     soluble in alcohol (1:11).

  DOSAGE: 0.003 Gm. or 1/20 grain (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Terpini Hydratis et Diacetylmorphinae (Elix. Terpin. Hyd. et
Diacetylmorph.), Elixir of Terpin Hydrate and Diacetylmorphine, N.F._
(Elixir Terpini Hydratis cum Heroina N.F. III).--Diacetylmorphine
hydrochloride (0.027%) and elixir of terpin hydrate. Absolute alcohol
content about 42 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.). This dose contains
  about 0.001 Gm. or 1/60 grain of diacetylmorphine
  hydrochloride, and about 0.07 Gm. or 1-1/6 grains of terpin
  hydrate.


=Diastasum (Diastasum), Diastase, U.S.P.=--A mixture containing
amylolytic enzymes from malt.

     Yellowish-white, odorless, tasteless powder or scales. Soluble in
     water; almost insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: May be mixed with starchy foods to
  assist their conversion into sugar.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Digitalis (Digit.), Digitalis, U.S.P.= (Foxglove, Digitalis Leaves,
Digitalis Folium P.I.).

  ACTION AND USES: Direct cardiac stimulant and diuretic.
  Used in cardiac decompensation. Most effective when the
  heart action is rapid and very irregular (auricular fibrillation).
  Effective in the treatment of edema only when
  the latter is due to impaired circulation. Very likely to
  cause disturbance of gastro-intestinal tract.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.). Physicians
  are advised to specify preparations which have been biologically
  assayed.

_Fluidextractum Digitalis (Fldext. Digital.), Fluidextract of Digitalis,
U.S.P._--Digitalis (100%). May be biologically assayed by producing
death in the frog. Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.05 Cc. or 1 minim (U.S.P.).--Physicians
  should specify the biologically assayed fluidextract.

_*Infusum Digitalis (Inf. Digit.), Infusion of Digitalis,
U.S.P._--Digitalis (1.5%), cinnamon water and water. This is an
effective form of digitalis, but has no advantage over tinctures of
proper potency, and is not so conveniently standardized.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Pilulae Digitalis, Scillae et Hydrargyri (Pil. Digit. Scill. et
Hydrarg.), Pills of Digitalis, Squill and Mercury, N.F._ (Niemeyer Pills
for Dropsy, Guy's Pills).--Each pill contains digitalis, squill and mass
of mercury (each 0.065 gm. or 1 grain) with clarified honey.

  USES: Popular but needlessly complex cardiac diuretic.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_*Tinctura Digitalis (Tr. Digit.), Tincture of Digitalis, U.S.P._
(Digitalis Tinctura P.I.).--Digitalis (10%) in alcohol and water. May be
biologically assayed by producing death in frogs. Absolute alcohol
content about 70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.). Physicians
  should specify the biologically assayed tincture.


=Dioscorea (Dioscor.), Dioscorea, N.F.= (Wild Yam Root, Colic
Root).--Rhizome.

  ACTION AND USES: No established indications for its use;
  formerly used in the treatment of "abdominal irritation."

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Dioscoreae (Fldext. Dioscor.), Fluidextract of
Dioscorea, N.F._--Dioscorea (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 70
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Drosera (Droser.), Drosera, N.F.= (Sundew).--Flowering plant.

  ACTION AND USES: No established indications for its
  use (formerly used in respiratory diseases).

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Droserae (Fldext. Droser.), Fluidextract of Drosera,
N.F._--Drosera (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Dulcamara (Dulcam.), Bittersweet, N.F.=--Stems and branches.

  ACTION AND USES: No established indications for its
  use. Formerly used as "alterative."

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Dulcamarae (Fldext. Dulcam.), Fluidextract of
Bittersweet, N.F._--Bittersweet (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. of fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Echinacea (Echin.), Echinacea, N.F.=--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: The claims for this drug as an
  "alterative" and antisyphilitic are extravagant and unwarranted.
  There are no established indications for its use.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Echinaceae (Fldext. Echin.), Fluidextract of Echinacea,
N.F._--Echinacea (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=*Elaterinum (Elaterin.), Elaterin, U.S.P.=--A neutral principle
obtained from the squirting cucumber. The commercial product is variable
and may at times be practically inert.

     White, odorless powder, with a slightly acrid, bitter taste.
     Insoluble in water; slightly soluble in alcohol (1:325).

  ACTION AND USES: One of the most powerful and
  irritant of hydragogue cathartics, causing profuse watery
  evacuations.

  DOSAGE: 0.003 Gm. or 1/20 grain.

_Trituratio Elaterini (Trit. Elaterin.), Trituration of Elaterin,
U.S.P._--Elaterin (10%).

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.).


=ELIXIRIA, ELIXIRS.=--Elixirs are sweetened, aromatic, alcoholic liquids
similar to cordials. In the administration of an elixir, the effects due
to its alcohol content should be borne in mind. The statements of
alcohol content of elixirs in this volume refer to percentage of
absolute alcohol by volume.

For the various elixirs, see under the names of the principal
constituents. For Elixir Aromaticum, Elixir Aromaticum Rubrum and Elixir
Glycyrrhizae (Elixir Adjuvans), see under =Alcohol=; for Elixir
Catharticum Compositum, see under =Frangula=; for Elixir Cinchonae
Alkaloidorum and Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum et Hypophosphitum, see
under =Quininae Sulphas=; for Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum et Ferri,
see under =Ferri Phosphas=; for Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri,
Bismuthi et Strychninae and Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri et
Strychninae, see under =Strychninae Sulphas=; for Elixir Cinchonae
Alkaloidorum, Ferri et Bismuthi, see under =Bismuthi et Sodii Tartras=;
for Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri et Calcii Lactophosphatis, see
under =Calcii Lactophosphas=; for Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri
et Pepsini, see under =Pepsinum=; for Elixir Ferri, Quininae et
Strychninae, and Elixir Gentianae et Ferri, see under =Ferri
Citro-Chloridum=; for Elixir Formatum and Elixir Formatum Compositum,
see under =Acidum Formicum=; for Elixir Gentianae et Ferri Phosphatis,
see under =Ferri Phosphas=; for Elixir Glycerophosphatum Compositum, see
under =Sodii Glycerophosphas=; for Elixir Hypophosphitum, see under
=Calcii Hypophosphis=; for Elixir Hypophosphitum et Ferri, see under
=Ferri Hypophosphis=; for Elixir Pepsini, Bismuthi et Strychninae, see
under =Strychnina=; for Elixir Terpini Hydratis et Codeinae, see under
=Codeina=; for Elixir Terpini Hydratis et Diacetylmorphinae, see under
=Diacetylmorphinae Hydrochloridum=; for Elixir Trium Bromidorum, see
under =Ammonii Bromidum=.


=*Emetinae Hydrochloridum (Emet. Hydrochl.), Emetine Hydrochloride,
U.S.P.=--The hydrochloride of the alkaloid emetine, obtained from
ipecac.

     White, or nearly white, odorless powder, darkening on exposure to
     light. Freely soluble in water or alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Given hypodermically. An effective
  treatment of amebic dysentery and other amebic diseases.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain.


=EMPLASTRA, PLASTERS.=--Plasters are solid preparations for external
use, serving either as simple adhesives or for the conveyance of drugs.
The commercial spread plasters have largely displaced the
extemporaneously prepared product. For the various plasters see under
the names of the principal constituents. For Emplastrum Elasticum, see
under =Resina=; for Emplastrum Fuscum Camphoratum, see under =Camphora=;
for Emplastrum Plumbi, see under =Plumbi Oxidum=.


=EMULSA, EMULSIONES, EMULSIONS.=--Emulsions are aqueous preparations in
which oils or resins are suspended by means of mucilaginous substances.

For the official emulsions see under the names of the respective oils
and resins.


=*Ergota (Ergot.), Ergot, U.S.P.= (Secale Cornutum, P.I., Ergot of Rye,
Spurred Rye).--

  ACTION AND USES: Causes powerful tonic, sometimes
  tetanic contraction of the uterus and of the bloodvessel
  walls. Checks postpartum hemorrhage by contracting
  the uterus. Used for excessive menstrual flow and as a
  circulatory stimulant. Has also been tried but without
  success in a great variety of other diseases.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Extractum Ergotae (Ext. Ergot.), Extract of Ergot, U.S.P._--A pilular
extract of ergot. Probably does not contain some of the valuable
constituents of ergot (the alkaloids).

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Extractum Ergotae Aquosum (Ext. Ergot. Aq.), Aqueous Extract of Ergot,
N.F._ (Ergoti Extractum P.I.).--A purified aqueous extract.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (N.F.).

_*Fluidextractum Ergotae (Fldext. Ergot.), Fluidextract of Ergot,
U.S.P._ (Secalis Cornuti Extractum Fluidum, P.I.).--Ergot (100%).
Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Ergotae Ammoniata (Tr. Ergot. Ammon.), Ammoniated Tincture of
Ergot, N.F._--Ergot (25%), ammonia water (10%) in alcohol and water.
Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Eriodictyon (Eriodict.), Eriodictyon, U.S.P.= (Yerba Santa).--Yerba
santa leaves.

  ACTION AND USES: Said to be expectorant. Its most
  remarkable property is its power of masking the taste of
  quinine.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains.

_Elixir Eriodictyi Aromaticum (Elix. Eriodict. Arom.), Aromatic Elixir
of Eriodictyon, N.F._ (Aromatic Elixir of Yerba Santa, Elixir
Corrigens).--Fluidextract of eriodictyon (6%), compound elixir of
taraxacum (about 44%) and syrup. Absolute alcohol content about 16 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Eriodictyi (Fldext. Eriodict.), Fluidextract of
Eriodictyon, U.S.P._--Eriodictyon (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Eriodictyi Aromaticus (Syr. Eriodict. Arom.), Aromatic Syrup of
Eriodictyon, N.F._ (Aromatic Syrup of Yerba Santa, Syrupus
Corrigens).--Fluidextract of eriodictyon, solution of potassium
hydroxide, compound tincture of cardamom, oils of sassafras, lemon and
clove, alcohol and syrup. Absolute alcohol content about 8 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=*Eucalyptol (Eucalyptol), Eucalyptol, U.S.P.= (Cineol).--A constituent
of the volatile oil of eucalyptus.

     A colorless liquid with a characteristic odor and a pungent taste,
     producing a cooling sensation in the mouth. Very slightly soluble
     in water but miscible with alcohol and chloroform and fixed or
     volatile oils.

  ACTION AND USES: Employed as a local stimulant, antiseptic
  and deodorant, largely as a constituent of inhalations,
  particularly oily sprays.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Cc. or 5 minims (U.S.P.).

_Nebula Eucalyptolis (Nebul. Eucalyptol.), Eucalyptol Spray,
N.F._--Eucalyptol (5%) in light liquid petrolatum.

_Petroxolinum Eucalyptolis (Petrox. Eucalyptol.), Eucalyptol Petroxolin,
N.F._ (Eucalyptol Petrox).--Eucalyptol (20%) in liquid petrolatum.


=*Eucalyptus (Eucalypt.), Eucalyptus, U.S.P.= (Eucalyptus Leaves, Blue
Gum Leaves).

  ACTION AND USES: Principally those of the volatile oil.
  Not used as such.

_Fluidextractum Eucalypti (Fldext. Eucalypt.), Fluidextract of
Eucalyptus, U.S.P._--Eucalyptus (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=Eugenol (Eugenol), Eugenol, U.S.P.=--A constituent of oil of clove.

     A nearly colorless, thin liquid, with a strong odor of cloves and a
     pungent, spicy taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of oil of cloves, over
  which it has no material advantage.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims.


=Euonymus (Euonym.), Euonymus, N.F.= (Wahoo Bark).--Bark of the root.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete cathartic; toxic digitalis
  effects. Caution: The uncertain absorption of this drug
  makes its use inadvisable.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains.

_Extractum Euonymi (Ext. Euonym.), Extract of Euonymus, N.F._ (Powdered
Extract of Euonymus).--A hydroalcoholic extract, 1 Gm. representing the
water-alcohol-soluble constituents of 4 Gm. of euonymus.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Euonymi (Fldext. Euonym.), Fluidextract of Euonymus,
N.F._--Euonymus (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims. (N.F.).


=Eupatorium (Eupator.), Eupatorium, N.F.= (Boneset,
Thoroughwort).--Leaves and flowering tops.

  ACTION AND USES: Domestic diaphoretic "tea." No
  established indications for its use.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Eupatorii (Fldext. Eupator.), Fluidextract of
Eupatorium, N.F._--Eupatorium (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Euphorbia Pilulifera (Euphorb. Pilul.), Euphorbia Pilulifera, N.F.=
(Pill Bearing Spurge).--Entire flowering plant.

  ACTION AND USES: Irritant; formerly used in respiratory
  diseases, but without established indications.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Euphorbiae Piluliferae (Fldext. Euphorb. Pilul.),
Fluidextract of Euphorbia Pilulifera, N.F._--Euphorbia pilulifera
(100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=EXTRACTA, EXTRACTS= (Solid Extracts).--Soft, solid (pilular extracts)
or powdered (powdered extracts) preparations made by evaporating a
solution of the soluble ingredients of vegetable or animal drugs at a
low temperature. Powdered extracts are often made from the solid
extracts by the addition of inert material. The strength of most
extracts is four times that of the drug. For the various official
extracts see under the names of the respective drugs.


=Farfara (Farfar.), Coltsfoot, N.F.= (Coltsfoot Leaves, Tussilago
Leaves).

  ACTION AND USES: Demulcent expectorant; no advantage
  over linseed.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm.


=*Fel Bovis (Fel Bovis), Oxgall, U.S.P.=

     A brownish-green or dark green, somewhat viscid liquid, with a
     peculiar odor and a disagreeable, bitter taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in the form of the extract as
  intestinal antiseptic, cholagogue and laxative.

_*Extractum Fellis Bovis (Ext. Fel. Bov.), Extract of Oxgall, U.S.P._
(Powdered Extract of Oxgall).--One Gm. of extract represents 8 Gm. of
oxgall.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains.

       *       *       *       *       *

Note:--_The prescribing of iron can be greatly simplified without
sacrificing anything of real value, if physicians will confine
themselves to the starred preparations._

       *       *       *       *       *


=Ferri Acetas, Ferric Acetate.=--Fe(C{2}H{3}O{2}){3}.

_Liquor Ferri Acetatis (Liq. Ferr. Acet.), Solution of Ferric Acetate,
N.F._--Contains anhydrous ferric acetate, Fe(C{2}H{3}O{2}){3} (about
31%), corresponding to about 7.5 per cent. metallic iron, Fe.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Cc. or 5 minims (N.F.).

_Liquor Ferri et Ammonii Acetatis._--See under =Ammonii Acetas.=


=*Ferri Carbonas, Ferrous Carbonate.=--FeCO{3}.

_*Massa Ferri Carbonatis (Mass. Ferr. Carb.), Mass of Ferrous Carbonate,
U.S.P._ (Vallet's Mass).--Contains FeCO{3} (35%) with sugar and honey.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Mistura Ferri Composita (Mist. Ferr. Co.), Compound Iron Mixture,
N.F._ (Griffith's Mixture).--Ferrous carbonate (obtained by decomposing
0.6% ferrous sulphate with potassium carbonate), sugar, myrrh, spirit of
lavender and rose water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_*Pilulae Ferri Carbonatis (Pil. Ferr. Carb.), Pills of Ferrous
Carbonate, U.S.P._ (Chalybeate Pills, Blaud's Pills, Ferruginous
Pills).--Each pill contains FeCO{3} (0.06 Gm. or 1 grain).

  USES: Convenient and effective form of iron.

  DOSAGE: 2 pills (U.S.P.).


=Ferri Carbonas Saccharatus (Ferr. Carb. Sacch.), Saccharated Ferrous
Carbonate, U.S.P.=--Ferrous carbonate, FeCO{3} (not less than 15%)
preserved with sugar.

     A greenish-brown, odorless powder, with a taste at first sweetish,
     afterward ferruginous.

  ACTION AND USES: Hematinic, like other iron salts;
  practically non-astringent and non-irritating.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.)


=*Ferri Chloridum (Ferr. Chlor.), Ferric Chloride, U.S.P.= (Iron
Perchloride, Sesquichloride of Iron).--Ferric chloride, FeCl{3}, with
water of hydration.

     Orange-yellow crystalline deliquescent pieces, odorless, and with a
     strongly styptic taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.2); freely
     soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in the form of the tincture of
  ferric chloride as an astringent, especially as an application
  to the throat. Also hematinic, but relatively irritant.

_Gossypium Stypticum (Gossyp. Stypt.), Styptic Cotton, N.F._--Purified
cotton, impregnated with ferric chloride.

_Liquor Ferri Chloridi (Liq. Ferr. Chlor.), Solution of Ferric Chloride,
U.S.P._ (Solution of Iron Perchloride).--FeCl{3} (about 10.5%).

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Cc. or 1-1/2 minims.

_*Tinctura Ferri Chloridi (Tr. Ferr. Chlor.), Tincture of Ferric
Chloride, U.S.P._--Ferric chloride (about 13%) corresponding to not less
than 4.48 per cent. of iron, Fe. Made by diluting a solution of ferric
chloride (35%) with alcohol. Absolute alcoholic content about 63 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Ferri Chloridi Aetherea (Tr. Ferr. Chlor. Aeth.), Ethereal
Tincture of Ferric Chloride, N.F._ (Bestuscheff's Tincture, Lamotte's
Drops).--Solution of ferric chloride (6%) and ether (25%) in alcohol.
Absolute alcohol content about 65 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.)


=Ferri Citras, Ferric Citrate=

_Liquor Ferri Citratis (Liq. Ferr. Cit.), Solution of Ferric Citrate,
N.F._--Contains ferric citrate corresponding to not less than 7.25 per
cent. metallic iron, Fe.

  DOSAGE: 0.6 Cc. or 10 minims (N.F.).


=Ferri Citro-Chloridum, Iron Citro-Chloride=

_Elixir Ferri, Quininae et Strychninae (Elix. Ferr. Quin. et Strych.),
Elixir of Iron, Quinine and Strychnine, N.F._--Tincture of ferric
citro-chloride (12.5%), quinine hydrochloride (0.875%), strychnine
sulphate (0.0175%), compound spirit of orange, glycerin and water.
Absolute alcohol content about 25 per cent.

  USES: A popular but irrational "tonic."

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Elixir Gentianae et Ferri (Elix. Gent. et Ferr.), Elixir of Gentian and
Iron, N.F._ (Elixir of Gentian with Tincture of Ferric
Citro-Chloride).--Tincture of ferric citro-chloride (10%) and elixir of
gentian. Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Tinctura Ferri Citro-Chloridi (Tr. Ferr. Citro-Chlor.), Tincture of
Ferric Citro-Chloride, N.F._ (Tasteless Tincture of Ferric Chloride,
Tasteless Tincture of Iron).--A tincture of a complex iron salt,
containing about 4 per cent. of iron (Fe) and rendered non-styptic by
the presence of a citrate. Made from solution of ferric chloride (35%),
sodium citrate (44%), alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about
15 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (N.F.).


=*Ferri et Ammonii Citras (Ferr. et Ammon. Cit.), Iron and Ammonium
Citrate, U.S.P.= (Soluble Ferric Citrate, Ammonio-Ferric Citrate).--Iron
citrate rendered more readily soluble by the presence of ammonium
citrate. Contains about 17 per cent. of iron, Fe.

     Thin, transparent, garnet-red, odorless scales, with a saline,
     mildly ferruginous taste. Readily and completely soluble in water;
     insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Hematinic, practically non-astringent.
  Has the general properties of iron salts.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains.

_Vinum Ferri (Vin. Ferr.), Wine of Iron, N.F._ (Wine of Citrate of
Iron).--Iron and ammonium citrate (4%) in tincture of sweet orange peel,
syrup, and sherry wine. Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Ferri et Quininae Citras (Ferr. et Quin. Cit.), Iron and Quinine
Citrate, U.S.P.= (Ferri et Quininae Citras Solubilis, U.S.P. VIII,
Soluble Iron and Quinine Citrate).--Iron citrate and quinine citrate
rendered more soluble by the presence of ammonium citrate. Contains not
less than 13 per cent. of iron, Fe.

     Thin, transparent, deliquescent, greenish or golden yellow,
     odorless scales, with a bitter, mildly ferruginous taste. Rapidly
     and completely soluble in cold water, partly soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a bitter iron tonic. Of doubtful value.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains.

_Vinum Ferri Amarum (Vin. Ferr. Amar.), Bitter Wine of Iron, N.F._--Iron
and quinine citrate (5%) in tincture of sweet orange peel, syrup and
sherry wine. Absolute alcohol content about 17 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.)


=Ferri Glycerophosphas (Ferr. Glycerophos.), Ferric Glycerophosphate,
N.F.= (Ferric Glycerinophosphate).

     Yellowish-green scales or powder, odorless and nearly tasteless.
     Freely soluble in water (1:2) and insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Reputed "tonic," but without advantage over the
  ordinary iron salts.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains.


=Ferri Hydroxidum, Ferric Hydroxide.=

_Ferri Hydroxidum cum Magnesii Oxido (Ferr. Hydrox. cum Mag. Oxid.),
Ferric Hydroxide with Magnesium Oxide, U.S.P._ (Arsenic Antidote, Ferric
Hydrate with Magnesia).--A dilute solution of ferric sulphate and a
mixture of magnesium oxide with water, kept in separate bottles. When
mixed, they yield ferric hydroxide.

  USES: Antidote for arsenic.

  DOSAGE: 120 Cc. or 4 fluidounces.

_Magma Ferri Hydroxidi (Magm. Ferr. Hydrox.), Ferric Hydroxide Magma,
N.F._ (Ferri Hydroxidum, U.S.P. VIII, Ferric Hydroxide).--A suspension
of ferric hydroxide in water.


=Ferri Hypophosphis (Ferr. Hypophos.), Ferric Hypophosphite, N.F.=

     White or grayish white, odorless and nearly tasteless powder. Very
     slightly soluble in water (1:2300); insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Reputed "tonic," but without advantage
  over the ordinary iron salts.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains.

_Elixir Ferri Hypophosphitis (Elix. Ferr. Hypophos.), Elixir of Ferric
Hypophosphite, N.F._--Ferric hypophosphite (1.65%), potassium citrate
(2.15%), water and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 21
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Elixir Hypophosphitum et Ferri (Elix. Hypophos. et Ferr.), Elixir of
Hypophosphites and Iron, N.F._--Calcium hypophosphite and sodium
hypophosphite (each 1.75%), potassium hypophosphite and ferric
hypophosphite (each 0.875%), potassium citrate, hypophosphorous acid,
water, syrup and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 10 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Liquor Ferri Hypophosphitis (Liq. Ferr. Hypophos.), Solution of Ferric
Hypophosphite, N.F._ (Solution of Hypophosphite of Iron).--Ferric
hypophosphite (16.5%) dissolved by means of potassium citrate (21.5%) in
glycerin and water.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).

_Syrupus Ferri Hypophosphitis (Syr. Ferr. Hypophos.), Syrup of Ferric
Hypophosphite, N.F._--Ferric hypophosphite (1.75%), dissolved by means
of potassium citrate (2.5%), and made into a syrup flavored with orange
flower water.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Ferri Iodidum, Ferrous Iodide.=--FeI{2}.

_Pilulae Ferri Iodidi (Pil. Ferr. Iod.), Pills of Ferrous Iodide,
U.S.P._--Each pill represents ferrous iodide, FeI{2} (about 0.06 Gm. or
1 grain).

  DOSAGE: 2 pills (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Ferri et Mangani Iodidi (Syr. Ferr. et Mangan. Iod.), Syrup of
Iron and Manganese Iodide, N.F._--Ferrous iodide (10%) and manganese
iodide (5%) in syrup.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).

_*Syrupus Ferri Iodidi (Syr. Ferr. Iod.), Syrup of Ferrous Iodide,
U.S.P._ (Ferri Iodidi Syrupus P.I.).--Ferrous iodide, FeI{2} (about 5%).

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.)


=Ferri Lactas (Ferr. Lact.), Ferrous Lactate, N.F.= (Iron Lactate).

     Greenish white powder or crystalline masses, with a slight,
     characteristic odor and a mild, sweet ferruginous taste. Slowly
     soluble in water (1:40), freely soluble in solutions of alkali
     citrates, but almost insoluble in alcohol.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (N.F.).

_Elixir Ferri Lactatis (Elix. Ferr. Lact.), Elixir of Iron Lactate,
N.F._--Iron lactate (1.75%), potassium citrate (5.25%) in water and
aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 18 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Ferri Lactophosphas, Iron Lactophosphate.=

_Syrupus Ferri Lactophosphatis (Syr. Ferr. Lactophos.), Syrup of Iron
Lactophosphate, N.F._--Iron lactophosphate (2.5%) in syrup.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Ferri Malas, Ferrous Malate (Iron Malate).=

_Extractum Ferri Pomatum (Ext. Ferr. Pomat.), Ferrated Extract of
Apples, N.F._ (Ferri Malas Crudus, Crude Malate of Iron).--A pilular
extract containing ferrous malate.

  DOSAGE: 0.65 Gm. or 10 grains (N.F.).

_Tinctura Ferri Pomata (Tr. Ferr. Pomat.), Tincture of Ferrated Extract
of Apples, N.F._ (Tinctura Ferri Malatis Crudi, Tincture of Crude Malate
of Iron).--Ferrated extract of apples (10%) in alcohol and cinnamon
water. Absolute alcohol content about 10 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Ferri Nitras, Ferric Nitrate.=--Fe(NO{3}){3}.

_Liquor Ferri Nitratis (Liq. Ferr. Nit.), Solution of Ferric Nitrate,
N.F._--Ferric nitrate, Fe(NO{3}){3}, corresponding to not less than 1.3
per cent. of metallic iron, Fe.

  USES: Astringent and styptic.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Cc. or 5 minims (N.F.)


=Ferri Oxidum Saccharatum (Ferr. Oxid. Sacch.), Saccharated Ferric
Oxide, N.F.= (Soluble Ferric Oxide, Ferrum Oxydatum Saccharatum,
"Eisenzucker").--Saccharated ferric oxide representing not less than 2.8
per cent. of Fe.

_Syrupus Ferri Saccharati Solubilis (Syr. Ferr. Sacch. Sol.), Syrup of
Soluble Saccharated Iron, N.F._ (Syrupus Ferri Oxydati Solubilis, Syrup
of Saccharated Oxide of Iron, Syrup of Soluble Oxide of
Iron).--Saccharated ferric oxide (41.5%), syrup and water.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Ferri Oxychloridum, Ferric Oxychloride.=

_Liquor Ferri Oxychloridi (Liq. Ferr. Oxychlor.), Solution of Ferric
Oxychloride, N.F._--Ferric oxychloride corresponding to about 3 per
cent. of metallic iron, Fe, dissolved in a mixture of glycerin and
water.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.)


=Ferri Oxysulphas, Ferric Oxysulphate.=

_Liquor Ferri Oxysulphatis (Liq. Ferr. Oxysulph.), Solution of Ferric
Oxysulphate, N.F._--A solution of basic ferric sulphate.

  USES: Superfluous astringent iron solution


=*Ferri Phosphas (Ferr. Phos.), Ferric Phosphate, U.S.P.= (Ferri
Phosphas Solubilis, U.S.P. VIII, Soluble Ferric Phosphate).--Ferric
phosphate rendered soluble by sodium citrate. Contains iron, Fe (not
less than 12%).

     Thin, bright green, transparent, odorless scales, with an
     acidulous, slightly saline taste. Freely and completely soluble in
     water; insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Hematinic. Only slightly astringent;
  no special advantage over other iron salts.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum et Ferri (Elix. Cinchon. et Ferr.),
Elixir of Cinchona Alkaloids and Iron, N.F. _(Elixir Cinchonae et Ferri
N.F. III, Ferrated Elixir of Calisaya, Alkaloidal).--Ferric phosphate
(3.5%), elixir of cinchona alkaloids (about 92%) and water. Absolute
alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Ferri Phosphatis (Elix. Ferr. Phos.), Elixir of Ferric
Phosphate, N.F._--Ferric phosphate (3.5%), water and aromatic elixir.
Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Elixir Gentianae et Ferri Phosphatis (Elix. Gent. et Ferr. Phosph.),
Elixir of Gentian and Ferric Phosphate, N.F._ (Elixir Gentianae
Ferratum).--Ferric phosphate (1.75%), elixir of gentian (about 95%) and
water. Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Syrupus Ferri, Quininae et Strychninae Phosphatum (Syr. Ferr. Quin. et
Strych. Phos.), Syrup of the Phosphates of Iron, Quinine and Strychnine,
N.F._--Ferric phosphate (2%), quinine (2.6%), strychnine (0.02%),
phosphoric acid (5%) in glycerin, water and syrup.

  USES: Needlessly complex "tonic."

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Ferri Protochloridum, Ferrous Chloride= (Iron Protochloride).

_Liquor Ferri Protochloridi (Liq. Ferr. Protochlor.), Solution of
Ferrous Chloride, N.F._ (Solution of Protochloride of Iron).--A solution
of ferrous chloride in glycerin and water.

  USES: Superfluous astringent iron solution.

  DOSAGE: 0.6 Cc. or 10 minims (N.F.).

_Syrupus Ferri Protochloridi (Syr. Ferr. Protochlor.), Syrup of Ferrous
Chloride, N.F._ (Syrup of Protochloride of Iron).--Solution of ferrous
chloride (5%) in glycerin, orange flower water and syrup.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Ferri Pyrophosphas (Ferr. Pyrophos.), Ferric Pyrophosphate, N.F.=
(Soluble Ferric Pyrophosphate).

     Thin, apple-green, transparent, odorless scales, with an acidulous,
     slightly saline taste. Freely and completely soluble in water and
     insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in iron elixirs; no special
  advantage over other soluble salts of iron.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains.

_Elixir Ferri Pyrophosphatis (Elix. Ferr. Pyrophos.), Elixir of Ferric
Pyrophosphate, N.F._ (Elixir of Pyrophosphate of Iron).--Ferric
pyrophosphate (3.5%), water and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol
content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Elixir Ferri Pyrophosphatis, Quininae et Strychninae (Elix. Ferr.
Pyrophos. Quin. et Strych.), Elixir of Ferric Pyrophosphate, Quinine and
Strychnine, N.F._--Ferric pyrophosphate (3.5%), quinine sulphate
(0.875%), strychnine citrate (0.014%), ammonium citrate, oil of orange,
alcohol, syrup and water. Absolute alcohol content about 23 per cent.

  USES: A needlessly complex "tonic."

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Ferri Subsulphas, Ferric Subsulphate.=

_Liquor Ferri Subsulphatis (Liq. Ferr. Subsulph.), Solution of Ferric
Subsulphate, U.S.P._ (Monsel's Solution, Solution of Basic Ferric
Sulphate).

  USES: Local styptic and astringent


=*Ferri Sulphas (Ferr. Sulph.), Ferrous Sulphate, U.S.P.= (Iron
Protosulphate).--FeSO{4} + 7H{2}O. (An impure product is commercially
known as copperas).

     Pale bluish-green, odorless crystals, with a saline styptic taste.
     Freely soluble (1:1.4) in water, insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Hematinic, especially in pills; but
  mainly used in making pharmaceutical preparations. Formerly
  used extensively as a disinfectant, but is only
  deodorant.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.).

_*Ferri Sulphas Exsiccatus (Ferr. Sulph. Exsic.), Exsiccated Ferrous
Sulphate, U.S.P._ (Dried Ferrous Sulphate).--Contains not less than 80
per cent. of FeSO{4}.

     Grayish-white powder.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.) as pills.

_Ferri Sulphas Granulatus (Ferr. Sulph. Gran.), Granulated Ferrous
Sulphate, U.S.P._ (Precipitated Ferrous Sulphate).--Purified ferrous
sulphate.

     Very pale, bluish-green, crystalline powder.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.).

_Pilulae Ferri, Quininae, Aloes et Nucis Vomicae (Pil. Ferr. Quin. Aloe.
et Nuc. Vom.), Pills of Iron, Quinine, Aloes and Nux Vomica, N.F._
(Pilulae Quadruplices, N.F. III, Quadruplex Pills, Quatuor Pills,
Pilulae Ferri et Quininae Compositae).--Each pill contains exsiccated
ferrous sulphate, quinine sulphate and aloes (each 0.065 Gm. or 1
grain), extract of nux vomica (0.016 Gm. or 1/4 grain) and extract of
gentian.

  USES: Antiquated, complex and irrational "tonic."

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.)


=Ferri Tersulphas, Ferric Sulphate= (Iron Tersulphate).

_Liquor Ferri Tersulphatis (Liq. Ferr. Tersulph.), Solution of Ferric
Sulphate U.S.P._ (Solution of Iron Tersulphate).

  USES: For making pharmaceutical preparations


=*Ferrum (Ferr.), Iron, U.S.P.=--Metallic iron, Fe, in the form of fine,
bright, and non-elastic wire.

  USES: For making the salts


=Ferrum Albuminatum, Iron Albuminate.=

_Liquor Ferri Albuminati (Liq. Ferr. Albumin.), Solution of Albuminate
of Iron, N.F._--Contains albuminate of iron equivalent to about 0.4% of
iron, Fe, in aromatic elixir, alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol
content about 20 per cent.

  USES: Non-astringent iron preparation; converted into
  simple ionic iron by dilute acids.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.)


=Ferrum Peptonatum, Iron Peptonate.=

_Liquor Ferri Peptonati (Liq. Ferr. Pepton.), Solution of Peptonate of
Iron, N.F._--Contains a compound of iron and peptonized fresh egg
albumin representing 0.4 per cent. metallic iron, Fe; flavored with oil
of orange, acetic ether and vanillin in alcohol and water. Absolute
alcohol content about 14 per cent.

  USES: Non-astringent inorganic iron preparation.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Liquor Ferri Peptonati et Mangani (Liq. Ferr. Pepton. et Mangan.),
Solution of Peptonate of Iron and Manganese, N.F._ (Liquor Ferri
Peptonati cum Mangano, N.F. III).--Solution of peptonate of iron with
soluble manganese citrate (1%). Absolute alcohol content about 14 per
cent.

  USES: Combination of iron and manganese, of doubtful
  advantage over the solution of peptonate of iron.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.)


=*Ferrum Reductum (Ferr. Reduct.), Reduced Iron, U.S.P.= (Ferrum
Redactum, Iron by Hydrogen, Quevenne's Iron).--Metallic iron, Fe (not
less than 90%), obtained by reduction of iron oxide by hydrogen.

     Very fine, grayish-black, lusterless, odorless and tasteless
     powder. Insoluble in water or alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: A hematinic, relatively non-irritant;
  given preferably just before meals in the form of pills or
  powder enclosed in capsules or cachets.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain.

_Pilulae Ferri, Quininae, Strychninae et Arseni Fortiores (Pil. Ferr.,
Quin., Strych. et Arsen. Fort.), Stronger Pills of Iron, Quinine,
Strychnine, and Arsenic, N.F._ (Pilulae Metallorum, N.F. III, Metallic
Pills, Pilulae Metallorum Amarae, Bitter Metallic Pills).--Each pill
contains reduced iron and quinine sulphate (each 0.065 Gm. or 1 grain),
strychnine and arsenic trioxide (each 0.0032 Gm. or 1/20 grain) with
clarified honey.

  USES: Complex and irrational tonic.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Ferri, Quininae, Strychninae et Arseni Mites (Pil. Ferr.,
Quin., Strych. et Arsen. Mit.), Mild Pills of Iron, Quinine, Strychnine
and Arsenic, N.F._ (Aitken Tonic Pills).--Each pill contains reduced
iron (0.045 Gm. or 2/3 grain), quinine sulphate (0.065 Gm. or 1 grain),
strychnine and arsenic trioxide (each 0.0013 Gm. or 1/50 grain) with
clarified honey.

  USES: Complex and irrational tonic.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

       *       *       *       *       *

Note:--_The prescribing of iron can be greatly simplified, without
sacrificing anything of real value, if physicians will confine
themselves to the starred preparations._

       *       *       *       *       *


=Ficus (Ficus), Fig, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Mild laxative


=FLUIDEXTRACTA, FLUIDEXTRACTS=.--Fluidextracts are concentrated liquid
preparations of vegetable drugs, generally containing alcohol either as
a solvent or as a preservative. One Cc. represents the extractives from
1 Gm. of drug.

The statements in this book regarding alcohol content are approximate
and are based on the alcohol contents of the menstruum used. For the
official preparations see under the names of the respective drugs. For
Fluidextractum Aromaticum, see under =Cinnamomum Saigonicum=.


=FLUIDGLYCERATA, FLUIDGLYCERATES=.--Preparations intended to be of the
same drug strength as fluidextracts--that is, representing 100 Gm. of
drug in 100 Cc. of preparation--but containing about 50 per cent. by
volume of glycerin and no alcohol. For the various fluidglycerates, see
under the names of the respective drugs.


=Foeniculum (Foenic.), Fennel, U.S.P.= (Fennel Seed).

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic and carminative.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains


=*Formaldehydum, Formaldehyde.=--CH{2}O.

_*Liquor Formaldehydi (Liq. Formaldehyd.), Solution of Formaldehyde,
U.S.P._--CH{2}O (not less than 37%) with methyl alcohol and water.

  ACTION AND USES: A powerful germicide, especially
  valuable in the form of gas for its penetrating power. Its
  irritant actions generally preclude its use on the body.

  For disinfecting rooms, from 150 Cc. or 5 fluidounces to 1 quart or 1
  liter of the official formaldehyde solution are allowed to each 1,000
  cubic feet of space by various authorities. Various methods have been
  employed. One is to allow the solution to evaporate from sheets
  suspended in the tightly closed room. Another is to generate the gas
  in the room by treating the solution with potassium permanganate,
  allowing about 110 Gm. or 3-1/2 ounces of potassium permanganate to
  500 Cc. or 1 pint of formaldehyde solution. A third method utilizes
  the reaction between formaldehyde solution and sodium dichromate in
  the presence of sulphuric acid, used in the proportion of 45 Cc. or
  1-1/2 fluidounces of sulphuric acid and 280 Gm. or 9 ounces of sodium
  dichromate to 500 Cc. or 1 pint of formaldehyde solution. These
  methods are not effective if the temperature of the room be below 60
  F. or the relative humidity below 65 per cent.


=Frangula (Frang.), Frangula, U.S.P.= (Buckthorn Bark).

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of cascara sagrada;
  used principally as fluidextract.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Catharticum Compositum (Elix. Cathart. Co.), Compound Cathartic
Elixir, N.F._--Fluidextract of frangula (12.5%), fluidextract of senna
(10%), fluidextract of rhubarb (6.2%), spirit of peppermint, solution of
potassium hydroxide and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about
25 per cent.

  USES: Needlessly complicated cathartic.

  DOSAGE: Aperient, 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.);
  cathartic, 12 Cc. or 3 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Frangulae (Fldext. Frangul.), Fluidextract of Frangula,
U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Buckthorn Bark).--Frangula (100%). Absolute
alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.)


=Fraxinus (Fraxin.), White Ash Bark, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly used as tonic, astringent
  and purgative. No established indications for its use.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Vinum Fraxini (Vin. Frax.), Wine of White Ash, N.F._--White ash bark
(50%), in alcohol and sherry wine. Absolute alcohol content about 30 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Fucus (Fucus), Fucus, N.F.= (Bladderwrack).--A sea weed.

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly used against goiters and
  tuberculous glands; may be of some value through its
  iodine content, but has no special advantage over other
  iodine preparations.

  DOSAGE: 0.65 Gm. or 10 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Fuci (Fldext. Fuci), Fluidextract of Fucus, N.F._--Fucus
(100%). Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.65 Cc. or 10 minims (N.F.)


=Galangal (Galang.), Galangal, N.F.=--Rhizome.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic carminative, resembling
  ginger and without advantage over the latter.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains


=Galega (Galeg.), Galega, N.F.= (European Goat's Rue).--Flowering tops.

  ACTION AND USES: Exploited as a galactagogue and
  nerve stimulant; has no established value.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Galegae (Fldext. Galeg.), Fluidextract of Galega,
N.F._--Galega (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Galla (Gall.), Nutgall, U.S.P.= (Aleppo Galls, Smyrna Galls).

     Incompatible with the salts of iron, lead, copper or silver.

  ACTION AND USES: Astringent. Used especially as ointment,
  but has no advantage over tannic acid.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Gallae (Tr. Gall.), Tincture of Nutgall, N.F._--Nutgall (20%)
in glycerin and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 85 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Unguentum Gallae (Ung. Gall.), Nutgall Ointment, U.S.P._--Nutgall (20%)
in ointment.


=Gambir (Gambir), Gambir, U.S.P.= (Pale Catechu).--A dried extract.

  ACTION AND USES: Astringent; used against diarrhea.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (in form of tincture).

_Pulvis Gambir Compositus (Pulv. Gambir Co.), Compound Powder of Gambir,
N.F._ (Pulvis Catechu Compositus, N.F. III).--Gambir (40%), kino (20%)
and krameria (20%), with Saigon cinnamon and nutmeg.

  USES: Needlessly complex intestinal astringent.

  DOSAGE: 1.3 Gm. or 20 grains (N.F.).

_Tinctura Gambir Composita (Tr. Gambir Co.), Compound Tincture of
Gambir, U.S.P._ (Compound Tincture of Pale Catechu).--Gambir (5%) with
Saigon cinnamon in diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 47
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Trochisci Gambir (Troch. Gambir), Troches of Gambir, N.F._--Each troche
contains gambir (0.06 Gm. or 1 grain) with tragacanth, sugar and oil of
cinnamon.

  DOSAGE: 1 troche (N.F.)


=*Gelatinum (Gelat.), Gelatin, U.S.P.=--Obtained from skin, ligaments,
bones, etc.

     Insoluble in cold water but swells and softens when immersed in it;
     soluble in hot water and in glycerin; insoluble in alcohol and
     similar solvents.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a food product. Also, by
  mouth or by injection, with the intention of increasing the
  coagulability of the blood; of doubtful value. May contain
  tetanus spores.

_Gelatinum Glycerinatum (Gelat. Glycerin.), Glycerinated Gelatin,
U.S.P._--Consists of equal parts of gelatin and glycerin.

  USES: Base for suppositories, bougies, etc


=Gelsemium (Gelsem.), Gelsemium, U.S.P.= (Yellow Jasmine Root, Yellow
Jessamine).

  ACTION AND USES: Used in migraine and neuralgia, and
  in the treatment of ovarian, rheumatic and uterine pain.
  Efficiency uncertain. Untoward symptoms sometimes result
  from comparatively small doses.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.). (Not used
  as such).

_Extractum Gelsemii (Ext. Gelsem.), Extract of Gelsemium, U.S.P._
(Powdered Extract of Gelsemium).--One Gm. of extract represents 4 Gm. of
gelsemium.

  DOSAGE: 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Gelsemii (Fldext. Gelsem.), Fluidextract of Gelsemium,
U.S.P._--Gelsemium (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Cc. or 1/2 minim (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Gelsemii (Tr. Gelsem.), Tincture of Gelsemium,
U.S.P._--Gelsemium (10%) in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content
about 62 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Cc. or 4 minims (U.S.P.)


=*Gentiana (Gentian.), Gentian, U.S.P.= (Yellow Gentian Root).--Rhizome
and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Probably the most widely used of
  the simple bitters.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Gentianae (Elix. Gent.), Elixir of Gentian, N.F._--Fluidextract
of gentian (3.5%), compound spirit of cardamom, sodium citrate,
glycerin, syrup, alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 21
per cent.

  USES: An agreeable aromatic bitter stomachic.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Elixir Gentianae et Ferri, N.F._--See under =Ferri Citro-Chloridum=.

_Elixir Gentianae et Ferri Phosphatis, N.F._--See under =Ferri
Phosphas=.

_Elixir Gentianae Glycerinatum (Elix. Gent. Glycerin.), Glycerinated
Elixir of Gentian, N.F._--Fluidextract of gentian (1%), fluidextract of
taraxacum (1.5%), acetic ether, phosphoric acid, tincture of sweet
orange peel, compound tincture of cardamom, glycerin, sugar and sherry
wine. Absolute alcohol content about 11 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms.

_*Extractum Gentianae (Ext. Gentian.), Extract of Gentian, U.S.P._--A
pilular extract.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Gentianae (Fldext. Gentian.), Fluidextract of Gentian,
U.S.P._--Gentian (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Infusum Gentianae Compositum (Inf. Gent. Co.), Compound Infusion of
Gentian, N.F._--Gentian (3%), coriander and bitter orange peel in
diluted alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 12 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Tinctura Amara (Tr. Amar.), Bitter Tincture, N.F._ (Stomachic Tincture,
Bitter Stomachic Drops, Stomach Drops).--Gentian (6%), centaury (6%),
zedoary (2%) and bitter orange peel in alcohol and water. Absolute
alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  USES: Bitter stomachic, complex and without special
  value.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_*Tinctura Gentianae Composita (Tr. Gentian. Co.), Compound Tincture of
Gentian, U.S.P._--Gentian (10%), bitter orange peel and cardamom seed in
glycerin, alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 46 per cent.


  USES: Aromatic Bitter.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.)


=Geranium (Geran.), Geranium, N.F.= (Cranesbill).--Rhizome.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete intestinal astringent, without
  special advantage over krameria, etc.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Geranii (Fldext. Geran.), Fluidextract of Geranium,
N.F._--Geranium (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 50 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.)


=Glucosum (Glucos.), Glucose, U.S.P.= (Syrupy Glucose, Liquid
Glucose).--Chiefly dextrose (d-glucose) and dextrins.

     Colorless or nearly colorless, odorless or nearly odorless, thick,
     syrupy, sweet liquid. Soluble in water, sparingly soluble in
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Pill excipient. Pure dextrose is also
  employed in saline injections


=*Glycerinum (Glycerin.), Glycerin, U.S.P.=
(Glycerol).--C{3}H{5}(OH){3}.

     A colorless, syrupy, practically odorless liquid, with a sweet
     taste, and producing a sensation of warmth in the mouth. Miscible
     with water and alcohol; insoluble in chloroform or ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as solvent, sweetening agent,
  demulcent and emollient. The enema or suppositories are
  promptly evacuant.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_*Suppositoria Glycerini (Supp. Glycerin.), Suppositories of Glycerin,
U.S.P._--Glycerin with a stearic acid soap.

  USES: Rectal evacuant.

_Suppositoria Boroglycerini (Suppos. Boroglycer.), Suppositories of
Boroglycerin, N.F._--Glycerite of boroglycerin (7.5%) with glycerinated
gelatin and glycerin.

  USES: Antiseptic evacuant.


=GLYCERITA, GLYCERITES.=--Solutions of medicinal substances in glycerin.
For the various glycerites, see under the names of the principal
ingredients. For Glyceritum Boroglycerini, see under =Acidum Boricum=;
for Glyceritum Vitelli, see under =Ovi Vitellum Recens=.


=*Glycerylis Nitras, Glyceryl Trinitrate= (Nitroglycerin, Trinitrin,
Glonoin).--C{3}H{5}(NO{3}){3}.

  ACTION AND USES: Vasodilator, acting more slowly than
  amyl nitrite.

_Pilulae Glycerylis Nitratis (Pil. Glycer. Nit.), Pills of
Nitroglycerin, N.F._ (Pilulae Glonoini, N.F. III, Pills of
Glonoin).--Each pill contains spirit of glyceryl trinitrate and althaea
(each 0.065 Gm. or 1 grain) with confection of rose.

  USES: Inferior to the tablets.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_*Spiritus Glycerylis Nitratis (Sp. Glyceryl. Nit.), Spirit of Glyceryl
Trinitrate, U.S.P._ (Spirit of Glonoin, Spirit of
Nitroglycerin).--Glyceryl trinitrate (about 1%) in alcohol.

  DOSAGE: 0.05 Cc. or 1 minim (U.S.P.) dropped on the
  tongue


=*Glycyrrhiza (Glycyrrh.), Glycyrrhiza, U.S.P.= (Licorice, Liquorice
Root).

  ACTION AND USES: Used to disguise the taste of drugs
  and as demulcent expectorant. The preparations are
  incompatible with acids.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Glycyrrhizae and Elixir Glycyrrhizae Aromaticum._--See under
=Alcohol=.

_Elixir Glycyrrhizae Aquosum (Elix. Glycyrrh. Aq.), Aqueous Elixir of
Glycyrrhiza, N.F._ (Aqueous Elixir of Licorice).--Fluidextract of
glycyrrhiza (15%), compound spirit of cardamom, stronger orange flower
water, glycerin, syrup and distilled water. Absolute alcohol content
about 3 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms.

_Extractum Glycyrrhizae (Ext. Glycyrrh.), Extract of Glycyrrhiza,
U.S.P._ (Extract of Licorice).--The commercial extract of glycyrrhiza.
Incompletely soluble in water (60%).

_Extractum Glycyrrhizae Purum (Ext. Glycyrrh. Pur.), Pure Extract of
Glycyrrhiza, U.S.P._--A pilular extract.

_*Fluidextractum Glycyrrhizae (Fldext. Glycyrrh.), Fluidextract of
Glycyrrhiza, U.S.P._--Glycyrrhiza (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Fluidglyceratum Glycyrrhizae (Fldglycer. Glycyrrh.), Fluidglycerate of
Glycyrrhiza, N.F._ (Fluidglycerate of Licorice).--Glycyrrhiza (100%) in
glycerin and water, made alkaline with ammonia water.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims.

_Mistura Glycyrrhizae Composita, U.S.P._--See under =Opium=.

_Pulvis Glycyrrhizae Compositus, U.S.P._--See under =Senna=.

_Syrupus Glycyrrhizae (Syr. Glycyrrhiz.), Syrup of Glycyrrhiza, N.F._
(Syrup of Licorice).--Fluidglycerate of glycyrrhiza (25%) in syrup.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.)


=Glycyrrhizinum Ammoniatum (Glycyrrh. Ammon.), Ammoniated Glycyrrhizin,
U.S.P.=--The sweet principle of glycyrrhiza, combined with ammonia.

     Dark brown or brownish-red, odorless scales, with a very sweet
     taste. Freely soluble in water and soluble in alcohol. Incompatible
     with acids.

  ACTION AND USES: Intended as substitute for extract of
  glycyrrhiza, over which it presents no advantage.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.)


=Gossypii Cortex (Gossyp. Cort.), Cotton Root Bark, N.F.=--Recently
gathered or dried bark of the root.

  ACTION AND USES: Exploited as emmenagogue, but
  without established value.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Gossypii Corticis (Fldext. Gossyp. Cort.), Fluidextract
of Cotton Root Bark, N.F._--Cotton root bark (100%). Absolute alcohol
content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.)


=Gossypium Purificatum (Gossyp. Purif.), Purified Cotton, U.S.P.=
(Absorbent Cotton).

  ACTION AND USES: Used as an absorbent surgical dressing
  and as a filtering agent


=Gossypium Stypticum.=--See under =Ferri Chloridum=


=Granatum (Granat.), Pomegranate, U.S.P.= (Pomegranate Bark).

  ACTION AND USES: the decoction or fluidextract expels
  tapeworm. Both are strongly astringent and often produce
  vomiting.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Granati (Fldext. Granat.), Fluidextract of Pomegranate,
U.S.P._--Pomegranate (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.)


=Grindelia (Grindel.), Grindelia, U.S.P.=--Leaves and flowering tops.

  ACTION AND USES: Used with doubtful results in spasmodic
  asthma, whooping cough, bronchitis, and hay fever,
  and locally against ivy poisoning. It is a feeble drug and
  its action has not been clearly defined.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Grindeliae (Fldext. Grindel.), Fluidextract of
Grindelia, U.S.P._--Grindelia (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 60
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.)


=Guaiaci Lignum (Guaiac. Lig.), Guaiac Wood, N.F.= (Lignum Vitae).

  ACTION AND USES: Reputed "alterative," but without
  established value. No advantage over guaiac resin.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.)


=*Guaiacol (Guaiacol), Guaiacol, U.S.P.=--Obtained from wood-tar
creosote or prepared synthetically.

     Colorless or yellowish solid or liquid, with an aromatic odor and a
     strong phenolic taste. Soluble in water (1:53), freely soluble in
     glycerin (1:0.8) and miscible with alcohol, chloroform or ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as intestinal antiseptic and
  bronchial stimulant, similar to creosote; less irritant but
  also less active. Inunction with 50 per cent. solution in
  oil is antipyretic but it is less powerful and more uncertain
  than acetphenetidin, etc. Action is difficult to control and
  collapse may occur.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.)


=*Guaiacolis Carbonas (Guaiacol. Carb.), Guaiacol Carbonate, U.S.P.=

     White, nearly odorless and nearly tasteless powder. Soluble in
     alcohol (1:60) and in ether (1:18); insoluble in water.

  ACTION AND USES: Being insoluble in water, it is less
  disagreeable and less irritating than guaiacol, but liberates
  this substance in the intestines. Used as intestinal antiseptic
  and against bronchitis.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.). in powders or
  cachets


=Guaiacum (Guaiac.), Guaiac, U.S.P.= (Guaiac Resin).

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly used as an "alterative,"
  against syphilis, chronic rheumatism and gout; and as
  throat lozenges for its mildly irritant action. It produces
  no definite systemic effects, except as a mild laxative and
  possibly diuretic. Its value is very doubtful. The ammoniated
  tincture is the most active preparation.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Gargarisma Guaiaci Compositum (Garg. Guaiac. Co.), Compound Gargle of
Guaiac, N.F._--Ammoniated tincture of guaiac (10%), compound tincture of
cinchona (10%), potassium chlorate (4%), with clarified honey and oil of
peppermint in water. Absolute alcohol content about 12 per cent.

  USES: Complex and irrational mixture.

_Glyceritum Guaiaci (Glycer. Guaiac.), Glycerite of Guaiac,
N.F._--Guaiac (8.5%) and solution of potassium hydroxide in glycerin and
water.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Mistura Guaiaci (Mist. Guaiac.), Mixture of Guaiac, N.F._--Tincture of
guaiac (12.5%) in clarified honey and cinnamon water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Petroxolinum Guaiacolis (Petrox. Guaiacol.), Guaiacol Petroxolin, N.F._
(Guaiacol Petrox).--Guaiacol (20%) in oleic acid and liquid petroxolin.

_Tinctura Guaiaci (Tr. Guaiac.), Tincture of Guaiac, U.S.P._--Guaiac
(20%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Guaiaci Ammoniata (Tr. Guaiac. Ammon.), Ammoniated Tincture of
Guaiac, U.S.P._--Guaiac (20%) in aromatic spirit of ammonia. Absolute
alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Guaiaci Composita (Tr. Guaiac. Co.), Compound Tincture of
Guaiac, N.F._ (Dewees' Tincture of Guaiac).--Guaiac (12.5%), potassium
carbonate and pimenta in diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about
45 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Guarana (Guarana), Guarana, U.S.P.=--Paste consisting chiefly of
crushed seeds yielding not less than 4 per cent. of caffeine.

  ACTION AND USES: Used for its caffeine. There is no
  reason for using it instead of caffeine.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Guaranae (Elix. Guar.), Elixir of Guarana, N.F._--Fluidextract
of guarana (20%), compound elixir of taraxacum (60%) and aromatic
elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 34 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Guaranae (Fldext. Guaran.), Fluidextract of Guarana,
U.S.P._--Guarana (100%) yielding about 4 per cent. of caffeine. Absolute
alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.)


=Gutta Percha (Gutta Percha), Gutta Percha, N.F.=--A purified,
coagulated tree sap.

  ACTION AND USES: Used for technical purposes in
  dentistry.

_Liquor Guttae Perchae (Liq. Gut. Perch.), Solution of Gutta Percha,
N.F._--A clarified solution of gutta percha in chloroform.


=Haematoxylon (Haematox.), Hematoxylon, N.F.= (Logwood).

  ACTION AND USES: Intestinal astringent, without advantage
  over krameria, etc.

_Extractum Haematoxyli (Ext. Haematox.), Extract of Hematoxylon,
N.F._--An aqueous extract.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.)


=Hamamelidis Folia (Hamamel. Fol.), Hamamelis Leaves, N.F.= (Witch Hazel
Leaves).

  ACTION AND USES: Astringent, without advantage over
  other tannin-bearing drugs (krameria, etc.).

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Hamamelidis Foliorum (Fldext. Hamamel. Fol.),
Fluidextract of Hamamelis Leaves, N.F._--Hamamelis leaves (100%).
Absolute alcohol content about 25 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.)


=Hamamelis= (Witch Hazel).

_Aqua Hamamelidis (Aq. Hamam.), Hamamelis Water, U.S.P._ (Witch Hazel
Water, Distilled Extract of Witch Hazel).--Witch hazel bark, twigs,
smaller stems or entire shrub, distilled with water and preserved with
about 14 per cent. of alcohol.

  USES: Employed externally, for contusions. It owes its
  feeble activity mainly to the alcohol


=Helianthemum (Helianth.), Helianthemum, N.F.= (Rock-Rose,
Frost-Weed).--The dried herb.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete astringent, tonic, alterative
  and emetic; unreliable and without established value.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Helianthemi (Fldext. Helianth.), Fluidextract of
Helianthemum, N.F._--Helianthemum (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Helonias (Helon.), Helonias, N.F.= (False Unicorn).--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Ingredient of "female remedies";
  without established value.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Heloniatis (Fldext. Helon.), Fluidextract of Helonias,
N.F._--Helonias (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.)


=*Hexamethylenamina (Hexam.), Hexamethylenamine, U.S.P.=
(Hexamethylene-tetramine; also sold as urotropine, aminoform, formamin,
formin, cystamin, cystogen, urisol and uritone).--(CH{2}){6}N{4}, a
condensation product of ammonia and formaldehyde.

     Colorless crystals or white powder, odorless and with a sweetish
     taste. Freely soluble in water (1:1.5) and in alcohol (1:12.5).
     Incompatible with acids, with ammonium salts, with tannin and with
     mercuric chloride.

  ACTION AND USES: Useful urinary antiseptic, liberating
  formaldehyde in the presence of acids (not otherwise).
  Also used as prophylactic against infection in bile and in
  other body fluids, but inefficient since these fluids are not
  acid.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.), in solution.
  When sodium acid phosphate is given to render the urine
  acid, hexamethylenamine should not be taken until the
  phosphate has left the stomach


=*Homatropinae Hydrobromidum (Homatrop. Hydrobr.), Homatropine
Hydrobromide, U.S.P.= (Homatropine Bromide).

     White, odorless powder. Freely soluble in water (1:6) and soluble
     in alcohol (1:40).

  ACTION AND USES: Used as mydriatic and cycloplegic.
  Its effects resemble those of atropine but occur more
  promptly and disappear in shorter time.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 mg. or 1/120 grain (U.S.P.). May be used
  in aqueous solution of 2 per cent. strength, or a drop of a
  1:500 solution may be introduced into the conjunctival
  sac every five minutes for five times to produce a maximum
  dilatation in three quarters of an hour


=Humulus (Humul.), Hops, U.S.P.=

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly used as aromatic bitter
  stomachic.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Humuli (Elix. Humul.), Elixir of Hops, N.F._--Fluidextract of
hops (12.5%), compound elixir of taraxacum, tincture of vanilla and
aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 25 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Humuli (Fldext. Humul.), Fluidextract of Hops,
N.F._--Hops (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 50 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Tinctura Humuli (Tr. Humul.), Tincture of Hops, N.F._--Hops (20%) in
diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 45 per cent.

  USES: Bitter stomachic.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Hydrangea (Hydrang.), Hydrangea, N.F.= (Seven-Barks).--Rhizome and
roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete cathartic, diuretic and diaphoretic;
  without established value.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Hydrangeae (Fldext. Hydrang.), Fluidextract of
Hydrangea, N.F._--Hydrangea (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 50
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.)


=*Hydrargyri Chloridum Corrosivum (Hydrarg. Chlor. Corr.), Corrosive
Mercuric Chloride, U.S.P.= (Bichloride of Mercury, Corrosive Sublimate,
Mercuric Chloride, Perchloride of Mercury).--HgCl{2}.

     Heavy, colorless crystals, crystalline masses or white powder,
     odorless and with a characteristic metallic taste. Slowly soluble
     in water (1:13.5) and freely soluble in alcohol (1:3.8). Its
     solubility in water is increased by the addition of sodium or
     ammonium chloride. Incompatible with soluble carbonates and
     hydroxides, with iodides and with alkaloids and other organic
     compounds. Reduced to calomel or metallic mercury by iron, zinc and
     other reducing agents.


  ACTION AND USES: Chiefly as a germicide and antiseptic;
  also as a specific antisyphilitic agent. Acute mercuric
  chloride poisoning is treated by raw eggs and lavage.

  DOSAGE: 0.003 Gm. or 1/20 grain (U.S.P.) in solution
  or pills. For hypodermic use in syphilis 0.01 Gm. or
  1/6 grain daily (produces marked pain and irritation).
  As antiseptic externally in solution from 1:20,000 to
  1:2,000. As disinfectant of clothing, in 1:1,000 solution.

_Mulla Hydrargyri Chloridi Corrosivi (Mull. Hydrarg. Chlor. Corros.),
Corrosive Mercuric Chloride Mull, N.F._ (Unguentum Hydrargyri Chloridi
Corrosivi Extensum, N.F. III).--Corrosive mercuric chloride (0.2%),
alcohol, benzoinated suet and benzoinated lard.

_Toxitabellae Hydrargyri Chloridi Corrosivi (Toxitabel. Hydrarg. Chlor.
Corr.), Poison Tablets of Corrosive Mercuric Chloride, U.S.P._
(Corrosive Sublimate Tablets, Bichloride Tablets).--Tablets of an
angular shape colored blue, each having the word "Poison" and the skull
and cross bones design distinctly stamped on it. Each 1 Gm. tablet
contains about 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains corrosive mercuric chloride and 0.5
Gm. or 8 grains sodium chloride.


=*Hydrargyri Chloridum Mite (Hydrarg. Chlor. Mit.), Mild Mercurous
Chloride, U.S.P.= (Mercurous Chloride, Calomel, Protochloride of
Mercury, Subchloride of Mercury).--HgCl.

     White or nearly white, odorless, tasteless powder. Insoluble in
     water, alcohol or ether. Incompatible with alkalies, with oxidizing
     acids like nitric acid, and with soluble bromides and iodides.

  ACTION AND USES: A slow cathartic, fairly powerful and
  relatively non-irritant. Should usually be followed by a
  saline laxative. Should not be taken continuously as it
  may salivate. Also employed as a diuretic in cardiac
  dropsies. Intramuscular injections are very efficiently
  antisyphilitic, but painful.

  DOSAGE: Laxative, 0.15 Gm. or 2-1/2 grains (U.S.P.);
  alterative, 0.015 Gm. or 1/4 grain (U.S.P.). From 0.005
  to 0.02 Gm., or from 1/12 to 1/3 grain, may be given every
  half hour or hour until from 0.1 to 0.2 Gm., or from 1-1/2 to
  3 grains have been given. In the treatment of syphilis
  0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grain in oily suspension is injected about
  once a week.

_Lotio Nigra (Lot. Nigr.), Black Lotion, N.F._ (Black Wash, Aqua
Phagedaenica Nigra).--A suspension of mercurous oxide, Hg{2}O, produced
by the action of lime water on mild mercurous chloride.

  USES: Mercurial antiseptic.

_Pulvis Hydrargyri Chloridi Mitis et Jalapae (Pulv. Hydrarg. Chlor. Mit.
et Jalap.), Powder of Mild Mercurous Chloride and Jalap, N.F._ (Calomel
and Jalap).--Mild mercurous chloride (34%) and jalap (66%).

  USES: Drastic purgative.

  DOSAGE: 0.65 Gm. or 10 grains (N.F.)


=*Hydrargyri Iodidum Flavum (Hydrarg. Iod. Flav.), Yellow Mercurous
Iodide, U.S.P.= (Mercurous Iodide, Protoiodide of Mercury, Yellow Iodide
of Mercury).--HgI.

     Bright yellow, odorless, tasteless powder. Almost insoluble in
     water and wholly insoluble in alcohol or ether. Decomposed by
     oxidizing agents, alkalies and the haloid salts of the alkali
     metals (chlorides, bromides or iodides).

  ACTION AND USES: Used principally as an antisyphilitic;
  generally given in the form of pills. Like all ingestion
  methods of treating syphilis, much less reliable than the
  intramuscular administration of mercurials and is falling
  into disuse on account of relative inefficiency. Has proved
  of value in lichen ruber planus.

  DOSAGE: 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.)


=*Hydrargyri Iodidum Rubrum (Hydrarg. Iod. Rub.), Red Mercuric Iodide,
U.S.P.= (Biniodide of Mercury, Mercuric Iodide, Red Iodide of
Mercury).--HgI{2}.

     Scarlet-red, odorless, nearly tasteless powder. Nearly insoluble in
     water and slightly soluble in alcohol (1:115); soluble in solutions
     of soluble iodides, sodium thiosulphate and hot solutions of alkali
     chlorides.

  ACTION AND USES: Mercuric Iodide, dissolved with
  potassium or sodium iodide, is used as an antiseptic, germicide
  and antisyphilitic. It is practically as effective as
  mercuric chloride and less irritant or corrosive.

  DOSAGE: 0.003 Gm. or 1/20 grain (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Hydrargyri et Potassii Iodidi (Liq. Hydrarg. et Pot. Iod.),
Solution of Mercury and Potassium Iodide, N.F._ (Solution of Potassium
Iodohydrargyrate, Channing's Solution).--Red mercuric iodide (1%),
potassium iodide (0.8%), and water.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (N.F.)


=Hydrargyri Nitras, Mercuric Nitrate.=--Hg(NO{3}){2}.

_Liquor Hydrargyri Nitratis (Liq. Hydrarg. Nit.), Solution of Mercuric
Nitrate, N.F._--Hg(NO{3}){2} (60%).

  USES: Caustic.

_Unguentum Hydrargyri Nitratis (Ung. Hydrarg. Nit.), Ointment of
Mercuric Nitrate, U.S.P._ (Citrine Ointment).--Mercuric nitrate
(equivalent to mercury 7%) in lard.


=*Hydrargyri Oxidum Flavum (Hydrarg. Oxid. Flav.), Yellow Mercuric
Oxide, U.S.P.=--HgO.

     Light orange-yellow, heavy, odorless powder, with a somewhat
     metallic taste. Almost insoluble in water, insoluble in alcohol,
     readily dissolved by dilute hydrochloric acid and nitric acid.

  ACTION AND USES: The ointment is used, especially on
  the eye, as an antiseptic and stimulant; also to some extent
  in impetiginous affections.

  DOSAGE: For the eye, 2 per cent.; for the skin, from 5 to
  10 per cent.

_Lotio Flava (Lot. Flav.), Yellow Lotion, N.F._ (Yellow Wash, Aqua
Phagedaenica Flava).--A suspension of mercuric oxide produced by the
action of lime water on mercuric chloride.

  USES: Mercurial antiseptic.

_*Unguentum Hydrargyri Oxidi Flavi (Ung. Hydrarg. Oxid. Flav.), Ointment
of Yellow Mercuric Oxide, U.S.P._--Yellow mercuric oxide (10%) in water,
hydrous wool fat and petrolatum.


=Hydrargyri Oxidum Rubrum (Hydrarg. Oxid. Rub.), Red Mercuric Oxide,
U.S.P.= (Red Precipitate).--HgO.

     Heavy, orange-red scales or powder, odorless and with a somewhat
     metallic taste. Almost insoluble in water; insoluble in alcohol,
     readily dissolved by nitric acid.

  ACTION AND USES: Occasionally used externally in the
  form of an ointment and as a parasiticide. Without
  advantage over yellow oxide.

_Unguentum Hydrargyri Oxidi Rubri (Ung. Hydrarg. Oxid. Rub.), Ointment
of Red Mercuric Oxide, N.F._--Red mercuric oxide (10%) in water, hydrous
wool fat and petrolatum.


=*Hydrargyri Salicylas (Hydrarg. Salicyl.), Mercuric Salicylate, U.S.P.=
(Mercuric Subsalicylate).--Contains Hg (about 57%).

     White or nearly white, odorless, tasteless powder. Nearly insoluble
     in water or alcohol. Dissolved by solutions of the fixed alkalies
     or their carbonates.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as antisyphilitic especially by
  intramuscular injection of oily suspensions; also as local
  antiseptic.

  DOSAGE: 0.004 Gm. or 1/15 grain (U.S.P.). By intramuscular
  injection, 0.6 Cc. or 10 minims of a 10 per cent.
  suspension in liquid petrolatum once in four days


=*Hydrargyrum (Hydrarg.), Mercury, U.S.P.= (Quicksilver).--Hg.

     Shining, silver-white, odorless, tasteless metal, liquid at
     ordinary temperatures. Insoluble in the ordinary solvents.

  ACTION AND USES: Its preparations are used to secure
  the systemic effects of mercury and locally against
  parasites.

_*Hydrargyrum cum Creta (Hydrarg. cum Cret.), Mercury with Chalk,
U.S.P._ (Gray Powder).--Mercury (38%), with prepared chalk (57%), honey
and water.

     Light gray, odorless, rather damp powder, with a slightly sweet
     taste.

  ACTION AND USES: A mild cathartic acting like calomel.
  Also used in the treatment of infantile and hereditary
  syphilis and of syphilis in aged patients.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.), as powder.

_*Massa Hydrargyri (Mass. Hydrarg.), Mass of Mercury, U.S.P._ (Blue
Mass, Blue Pill).--Hg (about 33%) in pill mass.

  USES: Mainly as cathartic.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Oleatum Hydrargyri (Oleat. Hydrarg.), Oleate of Mercury, U.S.P._--A
mixture of mercury oleate and oleic acid equivalent to 25 per cent. of
HgO.

  USES: Alterative, antisyphilitic; rarely used.

_Petroxolinum Hydrargyri (Petrox. Hydrarg.), Mercury Petroxolin, N.F._
(Mercury Petrox).--Mercury (30%) in hydrous wool fat, oleic acid and
solid petroxolin.

_*Unguentum Hydrargyri (Ung. Hydrarg.), Mercurial Ointment,
U.S.P._--Metallic mercury (about 50%) and oleate of mercury (2%) with
prepared suet and benzoinated lard.

  USES: Especially to secure the systemic effects of mercury
  by inunction.

_*Unguentum Hydrargyri Dilutum (Ung. Hydrarg. Dil.), Diluted Mercurial
Ointment, U.S.P._ (Blue Ointment, Hydrargyri Unguentum P.I.).--Mercurial
ointment (60%) equivalent to about 30 per cent. of metallic mercury,
with petrolatum.

  USES: Especially in pediculosis.


=*Hydrargyrum Ammoniatum (Hydrarg. Ammon.), Ammoniated Mercury, U.S.P.=
(White Precipitate).--Mercurammonium chloride, HgNH{2}Cl, corresponding
to about 79 per cent. of Hg.

     White, odorless lumps or powder, with an earthy, afterward styptic
     and metallic taste. Insoluble in water or alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: The ointment is extensively used as
  a cutaneous antiseptic especially for impetigo contagiosa
  and other pustular dermatoses and ringworm of the scalp.
  Also used for removing scales of psoriasis. It may cause
  salivation.

  DOSAGE: From 2 to 10 per cent. ointment.

_*Unguentum Hydrargyri Ammoniati (Ung. Hydrarg. Ammon.), Ointment of
Ammoniated Mercury, U.S.P._ (White Precipitate Ointment).--Ammoniated
mercury (10%) in white petrolatum and hydrous wool fat.


=Hydrastina (Hydrastina), Hydrastine, U.S.P.=--An alkaloid obtained from
hydrastis or prepared synthetically.

     White crystals or powder. Almost insoluble in water, soluble in
     alcohol (1:170).

  ACTION AND USES: Used in the treatment of urethral
  and vesical catarrh and as a systemic hemostatic, especially
  in excessive menstruation. Its efficiency and the mechanism
  of its action are doubtful.

  DOSAGE: 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.).


=Hydrastinae Hydrochloridum (Hydrastin. Hydrochl.), Hydrastine
Hydrochloride, U.S.P.= (Hydrastine Chloride).

     White, odorless, bitter powder. Very soluble in water and in
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Those of hydrastine.

  DOSAGE: 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Hydrastinae Compositus (Liq. Hydrastin. Co.), Compound Solution
of Hydrastine, N.F._ (Colorless Hydrastine Solution).--Hydrastine
hydrochloride (0.3%), aluminum chloride, calcium chloride, and magnesium
chloride (each 0.3%), potassium chloride (0.1%) in glycerin and water.

  USES: Complex and irrational astringent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Hydrastininae Hydrochloridum (Hydrastinin. Hydrochl.), Hydrastinine
Hydrochloride, U.S.P.= (Hydrastinine Chloride).--The hydrochloride of
hydrastinine, an alkaloid obtained synthetically from hydrastine.

     Yellowish, odorless crystals or powder. Soluble in chloroform
     (1:195); very soluble in water and alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Hydrastinine resembles hydrastine
  in its action but is said to be less depressing. Hydrastinine
  has a pronounced pressor effect on peripheral vessels,
  causing a rise of blood pressure.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.)


=*Hydrastis (Hydrastis), Hydrastis, U.S.P.= (Golden Seal).--Rhizome and
roots, yielding not less than 2.5 per cent. of ether-soluble alkaloids,
chiefly hydrastin.

  ACTION AND USES: Hydrastis is an unpleasant bitter;
  it possesses no advantages over other simple bitters
  (gentian). It has been asserted to have a special influence
  on mucous membranes favoring their nutrition and return
  to a normal condition. There is little or no experimental
  evidence to bear out the claim for any special action.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Extractum Hydrastis (Ext. Hydrast.), Extract of Hydrastis, U.S.P._
(Extract of Golden Seal, Powdered Extract of Hydrastis).--One Gm.
extract represents about 4 Gm. hydrastis. Yields about 10 per cent. of
alkaloids.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_*Fluidextractum Hydrastis (Fldext. Hydrast.), Fluidextract of
Hydrastis, U.S.P._--Hydrastis (100%), yielding about 2 per cent. of
alkaloids. Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Glyceritum Hydrastis (Glycer. Hydrast.), Glycerite of Hydrastis,
U.S.P._ (Glycerite of Golden Seal).--Hydrastis (100%) yielding not less
than 1.245 per cent. of alkaloids.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Hydrastis (Tr. Hydrast.), Tincture of Hydrastis, U.S.P._
(Tincture of Golden Seal).--Hydrastis (20%), yielding about 0.4 per
cent. of hydrastin; in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about
60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.)


=*Hydrogenii Dioxidum, Hydrogen Dioxide= (Hydrogen Peroxide).--H{2}O{2}.


_*Liquor Hydrogenii Dioxidi (Liq. Hydrog. Diox.), Solution of Hydrogen
Dioxide, U.S.P._ (Aqua Hydrogenii Dioxidii, U.S.P. VIII, Solution of
Hydrogen Peroxide).--H{2}O{2} (not less than 3%).

  ACTION AND USES: Nontoxic and fairly efficient local
  antiseptic and detergent, useful mainly for the destruction
  of pus. Used on suppurating wounds and as a mouthwash
  and gargle; also as a bleaching agent. Should not be
  injected into a wound unless free drainage is present.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.). For external
  application should be diluted about 1:4.


=Hyoscyaminae Hydrobromidum (Hyoscyamin. Hydrobr.), Hyoscyamine
Hydrobromide, U.S.P.= (Hyoscyamine Bromide).--Obtained from hyoscyamus
and other plants of the nightshade family.

     White, odorless crystals. Freely soluble in alcohol (1:2.5) and in
     chloroform (1:1.7); very soluble in water.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of atropine; is
  usually more sedative to the brain, but at times produces
  acute delirium. The drug is very uncertain.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 mg. or 1/200 grain (U.S.P.).


=*Hyoscyamus (Hyosc.), Hyoscyamus, U.S.P.= (Henbane, Hyoscyami Folium,
P.I.).--Leaves and tops, yielding not less than 0.065 per cent. of
alkaloids.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of belladonna.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Extractum Hyoscyami (Ext. Hyosc.), Extract of Hyoscyamus, U.S.P._--One
Gm. extract represents about 4 Gm. hyoscyamus. Yields about 0.25 per
cent. of alkaloids.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Hyoscyami (Fldext. Hyosc.), Fluidextract of Hyoscyamus,
U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Henbane).--Hyoscyamus (100%) yielding about
0.065 per cent. of alkaloids, chiefly hyoscyamine. Absolute alcohol
content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).

_Oleum Hyoscyami Compositum (Ol. Hyosc. Co.), Compound Oil of
Hyoscyamus, N.F._ (Balsamum Tranquillans).--Infused oil of hyoscyamus
(hyoscyamus 10%) flavored with oils of lavender, peppermint, rosemary
and thyme.

_*Tinctura Hyoscyami (Tr. Hyosc.), Tincture of Hyoscyamus, U.S.P._
(Tincture of Henbane, Hyoscyami Tinctura, P.I.).--Hyoscyamus (10%),
yielding about 0.0065 per cent. of hyoscyamus alkaloids; in diluted
alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 47 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Hypophysis Sicca (Hypophysis Sic.), Desiccated Hypophysis, U.S.P.=
(Desiccated Pituitary Body).--The posterior lobe obtained from the
pituitary body of cattle.

     A yellowish or grayish powder with a characteristic odor. Partially
     soluble in water.

  ACTION AND USES: Solutions are used, hypodermically, to strengthen
  uterine contractions in prolonged labor. They also stimulate
  peristalsis and have been used with some success after abdominal
  operations and as a vasomotor stimulant. Oral administration is
  ineffective.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.).

_*Liquor Hypophysis (Liq. Hypophysis), Solution of Hypophysis, U.S.P._
(Solution of the Pituitary Body).--Contains the water-soluble principles
from the fresh posterior lobe of the pituitary body of cattle. Assayed
by testing against a standard solution of beta-iminazolyl-ethylamine
hydrochloride by the method of the U.S. Hygienic Laboratory.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).


=Ignatia (Ignat.), Ignatia, N.F.= (Saint Ignatius Bean, Ignatia
Amara).--Seeds of _Strychnos ignatii_.

  ACTION AND USES: Constituents and actions similar to
  those of nux vomica, over which ignatia has no advantage,
  being less reliable.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (N.F.).

_Extractum Ignatiae (Ext. Ignat.), Extract of Ignatia, N.F._ (Powdered
Extract of Ignatia).--A hydroalcoholic extract, yielding about 6 per
cent. of alkaloids.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (N.F.).

_Tinctura Ignatiae (Tr. Ignat.), Tincture of Ignatia, N.F._--Ignatia
(10%), yielding about 0.2 per cent. of ignatia alkaloids; in alcohol and
water. Absolute alcohol content about 85 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.6 Cc. or 10 minims (N.F.).


=INFUSA, INFUSIONS.=--Aqueous preparations made by pouring hot or cold
water over a vegetable drug, allowing the mixture to stand for a
definite period and then straining. For the official infusions, see
under the names of the respective drugs.


=Inula (Inula), Inula, N.F.= (Elecampane).--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: At one time used in bronchitis. No
  scientific indications for its use.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).


=INUNCTA, INUNCTIONS.=--Semisolid ointment-like preparations used for
external application. For the various inunctions see under the names of
the principal ingredients.


=*Iodoformum (Iodof.), Iodoform, U.S.P.=--Triiodomethane, CHI{3}.

     Lemon-yellow powder or lustrous crystals, with a peculiar,
     penetrating odor and an unpleasant, slightly sweetish taste
     suggestive of iodine. Nearly insoluble in water, to which, however,
     it imparts its odor and taste; soluble in alcohol (1:60) and in
     glycerin (1:80).

  ACTION AND USES: Used as dusting powder, promoting
  healing by granulation. Oily suspensions are also used in
  treatment of tuberculous fistulas.

_Collodium Iodoformi (Collod. Iodof.), Iodoform Collodion,
N.F._--Iodoform (5%) in flexible collodion.

  USES: There appears to be no advantage in applying
  iodoform in collodion.

_Glycerogelatinum Iodoformi (Glycerogel. Iodof.), Iodoform
Glycerogelatin, N.F._--Iodoform (10%), water, glycerin and glycerinated
gelatin.

_Iodoformum Aromatisatum (Iodof. Arom.), Aromatized Iodoform,
N.F._--Coumarin (4%) and iodoform.

_Petroxolinum Iodoformi (Petrox. Iodof.), Iodoform Petroxolin, N.F._
(Iodoform Petrox.).--An unstable preparation made from iodoform (3%),
acetone, oleic acid, eucalyptol and liquid petroxolin.

_Unguentum Iodoformi (Ung. Iodof.), Iodoform Ointment, U.S.P._--Iodoform
(10%) in benzoinated lard.


=*Iodum (Iodum), Iodine, U.S.P.=--I.

     Heavy, bluish-black, brittle plates, with a metallic luster, a
     distinctive odor and a sharp, acrid taste. Very slightly soluble in
     water (1:2950) and soluble in alcohol (1:12.5). Freely soluble in
     solutions of alkali iodides.

  ACTION AND USES: The tincture and compound solution
  are used externally as local irritant and antiseptic. The
  irritant action can be easily graduated by successive application.
  It is rarely used internally for the systemic effects
  of iodides.

  DOSAGE: 0.005 Gm. or 1/12 grain (U.S.P.), largely
  diluted.

_Collodium Iodi (Collod. Iodi), Iodine Collodion, N.F._--Iodine (5%) in
flexible collodion.

  USES: There appears little advantage in applying iodine
  in collodion.

_Liquor Iodi Compositus (Liq. Iodi Co.), Compound Solution of Iodine,
U.S.P._ (Lugol's Solution).--Iodine (5%) and potassium iodide (10%) in
water.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Iodi Phenolatus (Liq. Iod. Phenol.), Phenolated Solution of
Iodine, N.F._ (Liquor Iodi Carbolatus, N.F. III, Carbolized Solution of
Iodine, Boulton's Solution, French Mixture).--Compound solution of
iodine (1.5%), liquefied phenol (0.6%), glycerin and water. The iodine
combines with the phenol.

  USES: Antiseptic.

_Petroxolinum Iodi (Petrox. Iod.), Iodine Petroxolin, N.F._ (Iodine
Petrox 10%).--An unstable preparation, containing iodine, ammonium
iodide and other iodine compounds in variable proportions, with a
mixture of liquid petrolatum, alcohol, ammonium soap and oil of
lavender; prepared from iodine (10%) and liquid petroxolin.

_Petroxolinum Iodi Dilutum (Petrox. Iod. Dil.), Diluted Iodine
Petroxolin, N.F._ (Iodine Petrox 5%).--An unstable preparation
containing iodine, ammonium iodide and other iodine compounds in
variable proportions with a mixture of liquid petrolatum, alcohol,
ammonium soap and oil of lavender; made from iodine (5%) and liquid
petroxolin. Absolute alcohol content about 19 per cent.

_Syrupus Iodotannicus (Syr. Iodotan.), Syrup of Iodotannin, N.F._--Made
by combining iodine (0.27%) with tannic acid (0.54%) in syrup. Contains
iodine probably in the form of an iodide.

  USES: Similar to those of potassium iodide; without
  advantage over the latter.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_*Tinctura Iodi (Tr. Iodi), Tincture of Iodine, U.S.P._--An alcoholic
solution of iodine (about 7%) and potassium iodide (about 5%). Absolute
alcohol content about 83 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Cc. or 1-1/2 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Iodi Decolorata (Tr. Iod. Decolor.), Decolorized Tincture of
Iodine, N.F._--A solution of sodium iodide and ammonium iodide obtained
by mixing iodine and sodium thiosulphate (each 8.3%), stronger ammonia
water (6.5%) and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 75 per cent.
Does not contain free iodine.

  USES: For external use; of doubtful utility.

_Tinctura Iodi Fortior (Tr. Iod. Fort.), Stronger Tincture of Iodine,
N.F._ (Churchill's Tincture of Iodine).--Iodine (16.5%) and potassium
iodide (3.3%) in water and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 65
per cent.

_Unguentum Iodi (Ung. Iodi), Iodine Ointment, U.S.P._--Iodine (4%) and
potassium iodide (4%) in glycerin and benzoinated lard. Should be made
as required.


=*Ipecacuanha (Ipecac.), Ipecac, U.S.P.= (Ipecacuanhae Radix, P.I.).--A
root, yielding not less than 1.75 per cent. of alkaloids.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as irritant, nauseant, expectorant
  and emetic. Also specific against amebic dysentery,
  but in this use has been practically displaced by emetine.

  DOSAGE: Emetic, 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.). Expectorant,
  0.06 Gm. or 1 grain.

_*Fluidextractum Ipecacuanhae (Fldext. Ipecac.), Fluidextract of Ipecac,
U.S.P._--Ipecac (100%), yielding about 2 per cent. of alkaloids.
Absolute alcohol content about 30 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.05 Cc. or 1 minim (U.S.P.).

_Pulvis Ipecacuanhae et Opii._--See under =Opium.=

_*Syrupus Ipecacuanhae (Syr. Ipecac.), Syrup of Ipecac,
U.S.P._--Fluidextract of ipecac (7%) and acetic acid (1%) in glycerin
and syrup.

  DOSAGE: Expectorant, 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.);
  emetic, 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Ipecacuanhae et Opii and Tinctura Ipecacuanhae et Opii._--See
under =Opium.=

_Vinum Ipecacuanhae (Vin. Ipecac.), Wine of Ipecac, N.F._--Fluidextract
of ipecac (10%, yielding about 0.2% ipecac alkaloids) in alcohol and
sherry wine. Absolute alcohol content about 27 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims.


=Iris (Iris), Orris, N.F.= (Orris Root).--Rhizome.

  ACTION AND USES: At one time thought to be a mild
  digestive stimulant, slightly cathartic and diuretic. Now
  employed as dusting powder, tooth powder and perfume.


=Iris Versicolor (Iris Vers.), Blue Flag, N.F.=--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete cathartic; without advantage
  over resin of podophyllum.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Iridis Versicoloris (Fldext. Iri. Ver.), Fluidextract of
Blue Flag, N.F._--Blue flag (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=*Jalapa (Jalap.), Jalap, U.S.P.=--A root, yielding not less than 7 per
cent. of resins.

  ACTION AND USES: Drastic hydragogue cathartic, used
  especially in dropsies. Preferred to other resinous cathartics,
  as being rather less irritant.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Extractum Jalapae (Ext. Jalap.), Extract of Jalap, N.F._--An alcoholic
extract.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Jalapae (Fldext. Jalap.), Fluidextract of Jalap,
N.F._--Jalap (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).

_*Pulvis Jalapae Compositus (Pulv. Jalap. Co.), Compound Powder of
Jalap, U.S.P._ (Pulvis Purgans).--Jalap (35%) and potassium bitartrate
(65%).

  USES: Useful hydragogue cathartic.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Resina Jalapae (Res. Jalap.), Resin of Jalap, U.S.P._--The resin from
jalap.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Jalapae (Tr. Jalap.), Tincture of Jalap, N.F._--Jalap (20%),
in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Tinctura Jalapae Composita (Tr. Jalap. Co.), Compound Tincture of
Jalap, N.F._--Jalap (12.5%) and resin of scammony (3%), in alcohol and
water. Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Juglans (Juglan.), Juglans, N.F.= (Butternut Bark, White Walnut
Bark).--Inner bark of the roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete cathartic, without advantage
  over cascara.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Juglandis (Fldext. Jugland.), Fluidextract of Juglans,
N.F._--Juglans (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Juniperus (Junip.), Juniper Berries, N.F.=--Ripe fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Irritant to urinary organs, owing to
  the chief constituent, a volatile oil. The spirit is sometimes
  used as an irritant diuretic.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Juniperi (Fldext. Junip.), Fluidextract of Juniper
Berries, N.F._--Juniper (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Kaolinum (Kaolinum), Kaolin, N.F.=--Purified native aluminum silicate.

     White or nearly white powder or lumps with an earthy taste.
     Insoluble in water.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in a poultice, cataplasma kaolini,
  similar to proprietary preparations. Internally, as absorbent
  in diarrhea and dysentery.

  DOSAGE: Tablespoonful dry or in tea several times daily.

_Cataplasma Kaolini (Catapl. Kaolin.), Cataplasm of Kaolin, N.F._--A
mixture of kaolin and glycerin with boric acid aromatized with thymol,
methyl salicylate and oil of peppermint.

  USES: Not superior to flaxseed or bread-and-milk
  poultices.


=Kava (Kava), Kava, N.F.= (Methysticum, Kava Kava).--Rhizome and roots
of _Piper methysticum_.

  ACTION AND USES: Mild irritant, without advantage over
  cubeb. Often inert. Owes its properties to an oleoresin.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Kavae (Fldext. Kav.), Fluidextract of Kava, N.F._--Kava
(100%). Absolute alcohol content about 50 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=Kino (Kino), Kino, U.S.P.=--A dried plant juice.

     Dark brown fragments or brick-red powder, odorless and having an
     astringent taste. Partly soluble in water.


  ACTION AND USES: Used as intestinal and pharyngeal
  astringent; has no special advantage over other vegetable
  astringents, such as krameria.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Pulvis Kino et Opii Compositus (Pulv. Kino et Opii Co.), Compound
Powder of Kino and Opium, N.F._ (Pulvis Kino Compositus, N.F.
III).--Kino (75%), and powdered opium (5%) with Saigon cinnamon.

  USES: Antidiarrheic.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Tinctura Kino (Tr. Kino), Tincture of Kino, U.S.P._--Kino (10%) in
diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 49 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Kino et Opii Composita (Tr. Kino et Opii Co.), Compound
Tincture of Kino and Opium, N.F._ (Tinctura Kino Composita, N.F. III,
Compound Tincture of Kino).--Kino (2%), opium (1%), spirit of camphor
(6.5%), oil of clove, cochineal and aromatic spirit of ammonia in
diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 50 per cent.

  USES: Antidiarrheic; undesirably complex.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Kola (Kola), Kola, N.F.= (Cola, Kola Nuts, Cola Nuts).--The peeled
seeds.

  ACTION AND USES: Possesses stimulant actions of its
  caffein and theobromin. Without advantage over coffee.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Kolae (Fldext. Kol.), Fluidextract of Kola, N.F._
(Fluidextractum Sterculiae, N.F. III).--Kola (100%). Absolute alcohol
content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Krameria (Kramer.), Krameria, N.F.= (Rhatany).--Root.

  ACTION AND USES: Powerful astringent; like other
  tannin-containing drugs, is rapidly passing out of use.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Extractum Krameriae (Ext. Kramer.), Extract of Krameria, N.F._
(Powdered Extract of Krameria).--An aqueous extract diluted with starch,
1 Gm. representing 4 Gm. krameria.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Krameriae (Fldext. Kramer.), Fluidextract of Krameria,
N.F._--Krameria (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).

_Fluidglyceratum Krameriae (Fldglycer. Kramer.), Fluidglycerate of
Krameria, N.F._--Krameria (100%) in glycerin and water.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).

_Syrupus Krameriae (Syr. Kramer.), Syrup of Krameria,
N.F._--Fluidextract of krameria (45%) in syrup. Absolute alcohol content
about 18 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Tinctura Krameriae (Tr. Kramer.), Tincture of Krameria, N.F._--Krameria
(20%) in diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 45 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Lac Vaccinum (Lac Vaccinum), Cow's Milk, N.F.=

_Lac Fermentatum (Lac Ferment.), Fermented Milk, N.F._ (Kumyss).--A
fermentation product obtained by the action of yeast on cow's milk to
which sugar (sucrose) has been added. The following is an unofficial
formula:

Take a quart of skim milk, one-fifth of a cake of yeast and two
tablespoonfuls of sugar. Heat the milk. Dissolve the yeast in a little
water and mix it with the sugar and lukewarm milk. Pour the mixture into
strong bottles, stopper them tightly with new corks, and tie down the
corks with strong twine. Shake the bottles well and place in a
refrigerator to ferment slowly. After three days lay the bottles on
their sides, turning them occasionally. Five days are required to
complete the fermentation.

  DOSAGE: 250 Cc. or 8 fluidounces (N.F.).


=Lactucarium (Lactucar.), Lactucarium, U.S.P.=--The dried juice of a
species of wild lettuce.

  ACTION AND USES: Inefficient and obsolete hypnotic and
  respiratory sedative. The proprietary preparation to which
  its popularity was due was found to contain morphine.
  Lactucarium is now seldom used.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.). Not given as
  such.

_Syrupus Lactucarii (Syr. Lactucar.), Syrup of Lactucarium,
U.S.P._--Tincture of lactucarium (10%) and citric acid, flavored with
orange flower water, in glycerin and syrup.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.). Absolute
  alcohol content about 5 per cent.

_Tinctura Lactucarii (Tr. Lactucar.), Tincture of Lactucarium,
U.S.P._--Lactucarium (50%) in glycerin, alcohol and water. Absolute
alcohol content about 46 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=Lappa (Lappa), Lappa, N.F.= (Burdock Root).

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete "alterative," used in
  nostrums.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Lappae (Fldext. Lapp.), Fluidextract of Lappa,
N.F._--Lappa (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Leptandra (Leptand.), Leptandra, N.F.= (Culver's Root).--Rhizome and
roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Unreliable cathartic; without advantage
  over resin of podophyllum.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Extractum Leptandrae (Ext. Leptand.), Extract of Leptandra, N.F._
(Powdered Extract of Leptandra).--A hydroalcoholic extract, diluted with
starch. One Gm. represents 4 Gm. leptandra.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Leptandrae (Fldext. Leptand.), Fluidextract of
Leptandra, N.F._--Leptandra (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=Limonis Cortex (Limon. Cort.), Lemon Peel, U.S.P.=

  ACTION AND USES: Used for the preparation of lemon
  flavors.

_Tinctura Limonis Corticis (Tr. Limon. Cort.), Tincture of Lemon Peel,
U.S.P._--Fresh lemon peel (50%) treated with alcohol. Absolute alcohol
content about 83 per cent.


=LINIMENTA, LINIMENTS.=--Liquid preparations intended for external
application. For the various official liniments, see under the names of
the respective chief ingredients.


=*Linum (Linum), Linseed, U.S.P.= (Flaxseed).--Used in demulcent
infusions, also when crushed or ground in poultices. If employed where
the skin is broken the entire poultice should be sterilized by boiling
before it is applied, in order to avoid infection.


=LIQUORES, SOLUTIONS.=--Aqueous liquid preparations in which one or more
substances are completely dissolved.

For the various official solutions, see under the names of the
respective principal ingredients. For Liquor Acidi Arsenosi, see under
=Arseni Trioxidum=; for Liquor Antisepticus, under =Acidum Boricum=; for
Liquor Antisepticus Alkalinus, under =Potassii Bicarbonas=; for Liquor
Arseni et Hydrargyri Iodidi, under =Arseni Iodidum=; for Liquor
Arsenicalis Clemens, under =Potassii Arsenas=; for Liquor Calcis
Sulphuratae, under =Calcii Sulphidum Crudum=; for Liquor Ferri et
Ammonii Acetas, under =Ammonii Acetas=; for Liquor Zinci et Alumini
Compositus and Liquor Zinci et Ferri Compositus, under =Zinci Sulphas=.


=Lithii Bromidum (Lith. Brom.), Lithium Bromide, U.S.P.=--LiBr (not less
than 85%).

     White, granular, odorless, very deliquescent salt with a sharp,
     slightly bitter taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.6) and soluble in
     alcohol and in ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Used like other bromides, over which
  it has no advantage. For the supposed urate-solvent
  properties of lithium, see =Lithii Carbonas=.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Lithii Bromidi (Elix. Lith. Brom.), Elixir of Lithium Bromide,
N.F._--Lithium bromide (8.5%) in syrup, water and aromatic elixir.
Absolute alcohol content about 7 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Lithii Carbonas (Lith. Carb.), Lithium Carbonate, U.S.P.=--Li{2}CO{3}.

     Light white, odorless powder with an alkaline taste. Soluble in
     water (1:78); almost insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in the same way as sodium
  carbonate; without advantage over the latter. Lithium
  was formerly given to promote the elimination of urates
  because it was supposed to have special urate-solvent
  properties, but under the conditions existing in the body
  these properties do not come into play.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).


=Lithii Citras (Lith. Cit.), Lithium Citrate, U.S.P.=

     White, odorless powder or granules, with a cooling, faintly
     alkaline taste. Freely soluble in water (1:1.4), very slightly
     soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used like citrates of sodium or potassium,
  over which it has no advantage. For the supposed
  urate-solvent properties of lithium, see Lithii Carbonas.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Lithii Citratis (Elix. Lith. Cit.), Elixir of Lithium Citrate,
N.F._--Lithium citrate (8.5%), in aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol
content about 21 per cent.

  USES: An objectionable alcoholic preparation of lithium.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Sal Lithii Citratis Effervescens (Sal. Lith. Cit. Eff.), Effervescent
Salt of Lithium Citrate, N.F._--Lithium citrate (5%), sodium bicarbonate
(57%), tartaric acid (30%) and citric acid, the three last-named
yielding sodium tartrate and sodium citrate.

  USES: Superfluous, and in view of its small lithium
  content, misnamed.

  DOSAGE: 8 Gm. or 2 drachms (N.F.).


=Lithii Salicylas (Lith. Salicyl.), Lithium Salicylate, N.F.=--

     White or grayish white odorless powder, with a sweetish taste;
     deliquescent in a moist atmosphere. Very soluble in water or
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: As a salicylate, inferior to sodium
  salicylate. Adequate doses would produce the toxic effects
  of lithium. For the supposed urate-solvent effects of
  lithium salts, see =Lithii Carbonas=.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Elixir Lithii Salicylatis (Elix. Lith. Salicyl.), Elixir of Lithium
Salicylate, N.F._--Lithium salicylate (8.5%) in aromatic elixir.
Absolute alcohol content about 21 per cent.

  USES: An objectionable alcoholic salicylic preparation.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Lobelia (Lobel.), Lobelia, U.S.P.= (Indian Tobacco).--Leaves and
flowering tops.

  ACTION AND USES: Expectorant, nauseant and emetic,
  resembling nicotine. Has fallen into disuse because of
  dangerous effects.

  DOSAGE: 0.15 Gm. or 2-1/2 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Lobeliae (Fldext. Lobel.), Fluidextract of Lobelia,
U.S.P._--Lobelia (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.15 Cc. or 2-1/2 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Lobeliae (Tr. Lobel.), Tincture of Lobelia, U.S.P._ (Lobeliae
Tinctura, P.I.).--Lobelia (10%) in diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol
content about 46 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).


=LOTIONES, LOTIONS= (Washes).--Liquid mixtures, usually of solid
medicinal substances suspended in water for external use.

For the various official lotions see under the names of the respective
principal ingredients. For Lotio Ammoniacalis Camphorata, see under
=Ammonia=; for Lotio Flava, under =Hydrargyri Oxidum Flavum=; for Lotio
Nigra, under =Hydrargyri Chloridum Mite=; for Lotio Plumbi et Opii,
under =Plumbi Acetas=.


=Lupulinum (Lupul.), Lupulin, N.F.=--Glandular powder separated from
hops.

  ACTION AND USES: Bitter tonic without material advantage
  over gentian. Reputed hypnotic and anaphrodisiac
  effects probably attributable to the alcohol in which it is
  commonly dissolved.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Lupulini (Fldext. Lupul.), Fluidextract of Lupulin,
N.F._--Lupulin (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (N.F.).

_Oleoresina Lupulini (Oleores. Lupul.), Oleoresin of Lupulin, N.F._--The
ether extract of lupulin.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (N.F.).


=Lycopodium (Lycopod.), Lycopodium, U.S.P.=--The spores of a moss.

     Very inflammable.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as an inert dusting powder for
  the skin, and as diluent for insufflations of boric acid,
  tannin, etc., for the throat, nose and ear.


=Macis (Macis), Mace, N.F.=--The arillode (inner covering) removed from
nutmeg (myristica).

     Yellowish or brownish, fragrant, branched and lobed bands, or
     orange-buff or orange-brown powder, with a warm, aromatic taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic flavor and carminative
  without advantage over cardamom.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (N.F.).


=MAGMATA, MAGMAS.=--Suspensions of insoluble or nearly insoluble
substances.


=*Magnesii Carbonas (Mag. Carb.), Magnesium Carbonate, U.S.P.=--A
mixture of magnesium carbonate and magnesium hydroxide.

     Light, white, friable masses or bulky white powder, odorless and
     with a slight earthy taste. Practically insoluble in water;
     insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used internally against gastric hyperacidity
  and as a mild laxative; externally as dusting
  powder. See also Magma Magnesiae, under =Magnesii
  Hydroxidum=.

  DOSAGE: 3 Gm. or 45 grains (U.S.P.).

_Mistura Magnesiae, Asafoetidae et Opii (Mist. Mag. Asafoet. et Opii),
Mixture of Magnesia, Asafetida and Opium, N.F._ (Mistura Magnesiae et
Asafoetidae, N.F. III, Dewees' Carminative).--Magnesium carbonate (5%),
tincture of asafetida (7.5%), tincture of opium (1%), and sugar in
water. Absolute alcohol content about 7 per cent.

  USES: Complex and irrational mixture intended for use
  in diarrhea.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Magnesii Chloridum (Magnes. Chlorid.), Magnesium Chloride,
N.F.=--MgCl{2} + 6H{2}O.

     Colorless transparent crystals or white translucent pieces;
     deliquescent in moist air. Very soluble in water (1:0.6) and
     soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to but without advantage
  over magnesium sulphate.

  DOSAGE: 15 Gm. or 4 drachms (N.F.).


=*Magnesii Citras, Magnesium Citrate.=

_*Liquor Magnesii Citratis (Liq. Mag. Cit.), Solution of Magnesium
Citrate, U.S.P._--Magnesium citrate corresponding to not less than 1.5
per cent. of magnesium oxide.

  USES: Efficient and not distasteful mild saline laxative.

  DOSAGE: 350 Cc. or 12 fluidounces (1 bottle) (U.S.P.).


=Magnesii Hydroxidum, Magnesium Hydroxide.=

_Magma Magnesiae (Magma Mag.), Magnesia Magma, U.S.P._ (Milk of
Magnesia).--A suspension of magnesium hydroxide in water [equivalent to
about 7% Mg(OH){2}] forming a thick, white liquid.

  USES: Widely used as mild alkaline laxative and tooth
  wash.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).


=*Magnesii Oxidum (Mag. Oxid.), Magnesium Oxide, U.S.P.= (Magnesia,
Calcined Magnesia, Light Magnesia).--MgO (not less than 96%).

     A white, bulky, odorless powder with an earthy but not saline
     taste. Almost insoluble in water; insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Useful antacid and laxative.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).


=Magnesii Oxidum Ponderosum (Mag. Oxid. Pond.), Heavy Magnesium Oxide,
U.S.P.= (Heavy Magnesia).--MgO (96%).

     White, dense powder.

  ACTION AND USES: Used like magnesium oxide.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Magnesii Sulphas (Mag. Sulph.), Magnesium Sulphate, U.S.P.= (Epsom
Salt).--MgSO{4} + 7H{2}O.

     Small, colorless, odorless crystals, with a cooling, saline, bitter
     taste. Freely soluble in water (1:1); almost insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: One of the most active of the saline
  cathartics.

  DOSAGE: 15 Gm. or 4 drachms (U.S.P.), in solution. A
  solution containing 1 Gm. of salt in each Cc. may be given,
  5 Cc. every hour until a laxative effect is secured. This
  should usually be diluted with water.

_Liquor Magnesii Sulphatis Effervescens (Liq. Mag. Sulph. Eff.),
Effervescent Solution of Magnesium Sulphate, N.F._--Magnesium sulphate
(about 7%) with syrup of citric acid, potassium citrate and water.

  DOSAGE: The contents of a bottle, about 350 Cc. or nearly
  12 fluidounces (N.F.).


=Maltum (Maltum), Malt, U.S.P.=--Malted barley, capable of converting
not less than 5 times its weight of starch into sugars.

     Yellowish grains with a characteristic odor and a sweet taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Used to digest starch by its diastase.

_Extractum Malti (Ext. Malt.), Extract of Malt, U.S.P._--Syrupy liquid.

  DOSAGE: 15 Gm. or 4 drachms (U.S.P.).


=Malvae Folia (Malv. Fol.), Mallow Leaves, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Demulcent "herb tea," without definite
  indications for its use.


=Mangani Citras Solubilis (Mangan. Cit. Sol.), Soluble Manganese
Citrate, N.F.= (Manganese and Sodium Citrate).

     Yellowish or pinkish white powder or translucent scales, odorless
     and having a slightly bitter, astringent taste. Freely soluble in
     water (1:4) and nearly insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Manganese salts have been tried as
  hematinic tonics, but are of very doubtful value. The
  choice among the various salts is a matter of convenience.
  The soluble citrate is typical of the soluble manganese salts,
  the dioxide of the insoluble.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (N.F.).


=Mangani Dioxidum Praecipitatum (Mangan. Diox. Praec.), Precipitated
Manganese Dioxide, U.S.P.=--Chiefly MnO{2}.

     Heavy, odorless, tasteless black powder. Insoluble in water or
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: See =Mangani Citras Solubilis=.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).


=Mangani Glycerophosphas Solubilis (Mangan. Glycerophos. Sol.), Soluble
Manganese Glycerophosphate, N.F.= (Soluble Manganous
Glycerinophosphate).--A mixture of manganese glycerophosphate and citric
acid.

     Yellowish or pinkish white, odorless powder, with an acid taste.
     Freely soluble in water (1:4); alcohol dissolves the citric acid
     and leaves a residue which is nearly insoluble in water.

  ACTION AND USES: As a manganese compound it has no
  material advantage over other manganese salts. For a
  discussion of glycerophosphates, see =Sodii Glycerophosphas=.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (N.F.).


=Mangani Hypophosphis (Mangan. Hypophos.), Manganese Hypophosphite,
N.F.=--Mn(H{2}PO{2}){2} + H{2}O.

     Pink, odorless, nearly tasteless powder. Freely soluble in water
     and insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: As a manganese compound, has no
  material advantage over other manganese salts. For a
  discussion of hypophosphites, see =Calcii Hypophosphis=.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (N.F.).


=Mangani Sulphas (Mangan. Sulph.), Manganese Sulphate, N.F.=--MnSO{4}
(about 65%).

     Pale rose-colored, translucent, odorless crystals, with a slightly
     bitter taste, slightly efflorescent in moist air. Freely soluble in
     water (1:1) and insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Without material advantage over
  other manganese salts.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (N.F.).


=Manna (Manna), Manna, U.S.P.=--A dried sap.

  ACTION AND USES: Mild laxative; antiquated.

  DOSAGE: 15 Gm. or 4 drachms (U.S.P.) as infusion.

_Syrupus Mannae (Syr. Mann.), Syrup of Manna, N.F._--Manna (12.5%) and
alcohol in syrup. Absolute alcohol content about 6 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=MASSAE, MASSES.=--Soft solid preparations of such consistency that they
can readily be made into pills. For the various masses, see under the
names of the respective drugs.


=Mastiche (Mastic.), Mastic, N.F.=--A resin.

     Completely soluble in ether and almost completely soluble in
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Carminative, without special advantage
  over cardamom or fennel.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).


=Matico (Matic.), Matico, N.F.= (Matico Leaves).

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete genito-urinary "stimulant,"
  without advantage over buchu, etc.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Matico (Fldext. Matic.), Fluidextract of Matico,
N.F._--Matico (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Matricaria (Matricar.), Matricaria, U.S.P.= (German Chamomile, Wild
Chamomile).--Flower heads.

  ACTION AND USES: Popularly used as a bitter and aromatic
  "tea" and poultice, any effects being due mostly to
  the hot water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Gm. or 4 drachms (U.S.P.).


=Mel (Mel), Honey, U.S.P.=

  ACTION AND USES: Demulcent.

_Mel Depuratum (Mel Depurat.), Clarified Honey, U.S.P._

_Mel Rosae (Mel Rosae), Honey of Rose, U.S.P._--Fluidextract of rose and
clarified honey. Absolute alcohol content about 5 per cent.

  USES: Flavoring vehicle; rarely used.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).


=Melilotus (Melilot.), Melilot, N.F.= (Yellow Sweet Clover).--Leaves and
flowering tops.

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly used as a stimulant and
  antispasmodic and in the treatment of neuralgia especially
  associated with debility. Now seldom used; no scientific
  indications for its use.


=MELLITA, HONEYS.=--Sweet liquids having honey as a base. For the
various honeys, see under the names of the respective principal
ingredients. For Mel Rosae, see under =Mel=; for Mel Rosae et Sodii
Boratis, see under =Sodii Boras=.


=*Mentha Piperita (Menth. Pip.), Peppermint, U.S.P.=--Leaves and
flowering tops.

  ACTION AND USES: Carminative and flavor, used chiefly
  in the form of the oil and spirit, which see under =Oleum
  Menthae Piperitae=.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.).


=Mentha Viridis (Menth. Vir.), Spearmint, U.S.P.=--Leaves and flowering
tops.

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of peppermint. See
  =Oleum Menthae Viridis=.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.).


=*Menthol (Menthol), Menthol, U.S.P.=--Obtained from oil of peppermint
or other mint oils.

     Colorless crystals, with a strong peppermint odor and an aromatic
     taste. Slightly soluble in water; very soluble in alcohol,
     chloroform or petroleum benzin.

  ACTION AND USES: Used locally as counterirritant and
  analgesic; sometimes internally as carminative.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain.

_Inunctum Mentholis (Inunct. Menthol.), Menthol Inunction,
N.F._--Menthol (5%) and hydrous wool fat.

_Inunctum Mentholis Compositum (Inunct. Menthol. Co.), Compound Menthol
Inunction, N.F._--Menthol (5%), methyl salicylate (10%) and hydrous wool
fat.

_Menthol Camphoratum (Menthol Camph.), Camphorated Menthol, N.F._
(Campho-Menthol, N.F. III, Camphor and Menthol).--Camphor (47.5%),
menthol (47.5%) and alcohol.

_Nebula Mentholis (Nebul. Menthol.), Menthol Spray, N.F._--Menthol (2%)
in light liquid petrolatum.

_Nebula Mentholis Composita (Nebul. Menthol. Co.), Compound Menthol
Spray, N.F._--Menthol (1%), camphor (1%), methyl salicylate, eucalyptol
and oil of cinnamon in light liquid petrolatum.

_Petroxolinum Mentholis (Petrox. Menthol.), Menthol Petroxolin, N.F._
(Menthol Petrox).--Menthol (17%) in liquid petroxolin.


=Menyanthes (Menyanth.), Menyanthes, N.F.= (Buckbean, Marsh
Trefoil).--Leaves of _Menyanthes trifoliata_.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete bitter; no special indications
  for its use.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).


=*Methylis Salicylas (Methyl. Salicyl.), Methyl Salicylate, U.S.P.=
(Oleum Gaultheriae, U.S.P. VIII, Oil of Wintergreen, Oleum Betulae,
U.S.P. VIII, Oil of Sweet Birch, Oil of Teaberry).--Produced
synthetically or obtained from wintergreen (oil of wintergreen) or from
birch (oil of sweet birch).

     Colorless, yellowish or reddish liquid, with a wintergreen odor and
     taste. Sparingly soluble in water and miscible with alcohol and
     glacial acetic acid.

  ACTION AND USES: Chiefly used as flavor. In sufficient
  amounts, antirheumatic and antipyretic.

  DOSAGE: 0.75 Cc. or 12 minims (U.S.P.). May be
  applied externally either pure or diluted (10%) in ointment.
  For absorption through the skin is best diluted with
  a fatty oil.

_Petroxolinum Methylis Salicylatis (Petrox. Methyl. Salicyl.), Methyl
Salicylate Petroxolin, N.F._ (Methyl Salicylate Petrox).--Methyl
salicylate (20%), in liquid petroxolin.


=Methylthioninae Chloridum (Methylthionin. Chlor.), Methylthionine
Chloride, U.S.P.= (Methylthioninae Hydrochloridum, U.S.P. VIII,
Methylene Blue).

     Dark green powder or crystals with a bronze-like luster. Freely
     soluble in water and alcohol, forming a deep blue solution.


  ACTION AND USES: Sometimes used as urinary antiseptic;
  also in the treatment of malaria and some neuralgic conditions.
  In the latter use, is of doubtful value.

  DOSAGE: 0.15 Gm. or 2-1/2 grains (U.S.P.).


=Mezereum (Mezereum), Mezereum, U.S.P.= (Mezereon).--A bark.

  ACTION AND USES: Antiquated antisyphilitic and vesicant.

_Fluidextractum Mezerei (Fldext. Mezer.), Fluidextract of Mezereum,
N.F._--Mezereum (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.


=MISTURAE, MIXTURES.=--Liquid preparations containing insoluble or
partly soluble medicinal substances suspended in them.

For the various official mixtures, see under the names of the respective
principal ingredients. For Mistura Adstringens, see under =Cupri
Sulphas=; for Mistura Camphorae Acida, Mistura Carminativa and Mistura
Glycyrrhizae Composita, under =Opium=; for Mistura Ferri Composita,
under =Ferri Carbonas=; for Mistura Camphorae Aromatica and Mistura
Oleo-Balsamica, under =Oleum Lavandulae=; for Mistura Pectoralis Stokes,
under =Ammonii Carbonas=.


=Morphina (Morphina), Morphine, U.S.P.=--An alkaloid obtained from
opium.

     Colorless or white, odorless crystals or powder. Very slightly
     soluble in water (1:3,340) and soluble in alcohol (1:210).

  ACTION AND USES: Central analgesic, hypnotic and
  respiratory sedative and depressant; also constipative. Is
  only slightly depressant to the circulation. Eliminated
  mainly through the bowels. Should not be used to control
  cough if this is associated with marked expectoration. Its
  habit-forming power should be constantly remembered.

  DOSAGE: 0.008 Gm. or 1/8 grain (U.S.P.).


=*Morphinae Hydrochloridum (Morph. Hydrochl.), Morphine Hydrochloride,
U.S.P.= (Morphine Chloride).

     White, odorless needles, masses or powder. Soluble in water
     (1:17.5) and in alcohol (1:52).

  ACTION AND USES: See =Morphina=.

  DOSAGE: 0.008 Gm. or 1/8 grain (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Morphinae et Acaciae (Syr. Morph. et Acac.), Syrup of Morphine
and Acacia, N.F._ (Syrupus Pectoralis, N.F. III, Jackson's Pectoral
Syrup).--Morphine hydrochloride (0.055%) flavored with oil of sassafras
in syrup of acacia.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=*Morphinae Sulphas (Morph. Sulph.), Morphine Sulphate, U.S.P.=--

     White, odorless crystals or masses. Soluble in water (1:15.2) and
     slightly soluble in alcohol (1:565).

  ACTION AND USES: See =Morphina=.

  DOSAGE: 0.008 Gm. or 1/8 grain (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Pini Strobi Compositus cum Morphina (Syr. Pin. Strob. c.
Morph.), Compound Syrup of White Pine with Morphine, N.F._ (Syrupus Pini
Strobi Compositus, N.F. III).--Morphine sulphate (0.04%) in compound
syrup of white pine. Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  USES: Objectionable expectorant mixture containing
  morphine.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Moschus (Mosch.), Musk, U.S.P.= (Tonquin Musk, Deer Musk).--A dried
animal secretion.

  ACTION AND USES: Antiquated analeptic.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Moschi (Tr. Mosch.), Tincture of Musk, U.S.P._--Musk (5%) in
diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 48 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).


=MUCILAGINES, MUCILAGES.=--Aqueous solutions of gums or the mucilaginous
principles of vegetable substances. For the various mucilages, see under
the names of the respective drugs.


=MULLAE, MULLS.=--Ointments of high fusing points spread on soft muslin
or "mull." For the various mulls, see under the names of the respective
active constituents.


=Myrica (Myrica), Bayberry Bark, N.F.=--Bark of the root.

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly recommended as digestive,
  nutritive and nervous stimulant. No scientific indications
  for its use.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (N.F.).

_Pulvis Myricae Compositus (Pulv. Myric. Co.), Compound Powder of
Bayberry, N.F._ (Composition Powder).--Bayberry bark (60%), Jamaica
ginger (30%), capsicum and clove.

  USES: An obsolete carminative.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).


=Myristica (Myrist.), Myristica, U.S.P.= (Nutmeg).

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic and carminative.


=*Myrrha (Myrrh.), Myrrh, U.S.P.= (Gum Myrrh).--A gum resin.

  ACTION AND USES: Protective and local stimulant to the
  mucous membranes. Internally, carminative.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_*Tinctura Myrrhae (Tr. Myrrh.), Tincture of Myrrh, U.S.P._--Myrrh (20%)
in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 87 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).


=NEBULAE, SPRAYS.=--Spray solutions, intended for the application of
medicaments in solution to the throat and nose by means of suitable
atomizers. For Nebula Aromatica, see under =Petrolatum Liquidum=; for
the various other sprays, see under =Eucalyptol=, =Menthol= and
=Thymol=.


=Nitrogenii Monoxidum (Nitrogen. Monox.), Nitrogen Monoxide, U.S.P.=
(Nitrous Oxide, "Laughing Gas").--N{2}O.

     A colorless gas with a slight characteristic odor and a sweetish
     taste.

  ACTION AND USES: For inhalation anesthesia.


=*Nux Vomica (Nux Vom.), Nux Vomica, U.S.P.= (Strychni Semen,
P.I.).--Seeds yielding not less than 2.5 per cent. of alkaloids, chiefly
strychnine and brucine.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as bitter stomachic and tonic,
  depending on its strychnine.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_*Extractum Nucis Vomicae (Ext. Nuc. Vom.), Extract of Nux Vomica,
U.S.P._ (Powdered Extract of Nux Vomica, Nucis Vomicae Extractum
P.I.).--Yields about 16 per cent. of alkaloids.

  DOSAGE: 0.015 Gm. or 1/4 grain (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Nucis Vomicae (Fldext. Nuc. Vom.), Fluidextract of Nux
Vomica, U.S.P._--Nux vomica (100%) yielding about 2.5 per cent. of
alkaloids. Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.05 Cc. or 1 minim (U.S.P.).

_*Tinctura Nucis Vomicae (Tr. Nuc. Vom.), Tincture of Nux Vomica,
U.S.P._ (Strychni Tinctura, P.I.).--Nux vomica (10%) yielding about 0.25
per cent. of alkaloids. Absolute alcohol content about 71 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.).


=OLEA INFUSA (OL. INF.), INFUSED OILS, N.F.=--Liquid preparation made by
extracting drugs by fixed oils.


=OLEATA, OLEATES.=--Oleates are combinations of alkaloids or metallic
oxids with oleic acid or with mixtures of oleic acid with a fixed oil.
They have no real advantage over simpler ointments. For the official
oleates see under the names of the respective drugs.


=OLEORESINAE, OLEORESINS.=--Oleoresins are thick liquid preparations
made by extracting the drug with ether, alcohol or acetone. For the
official oleoresins see under the names of the respective drugs.


=OLEOSACCHARA (OLEOSACCHARA), OIL-SUGARS, N.F.=
(Elaeosacchara).--Mixtures of volatile oil (2%) with sugar in fine
powder.


=Oleum Aethereum (Ol. Aether.), Ethereal Oil, N.F.=--A volatile liquid
consisting of equal volumes of heavy oil of wine (chiefly ethyl esters
of sulphuric acid) and ether. An indefinite and obsolete ingredient of
the medieval "Hoffmann's anodyne."


=Oleum Amygdalae Amarae (Ol. Amygd. Amar.), Oil of Bitter Almond,
U.S.P.= (Bitter Almond Oil).--A volatile oil yielding benzaldehyde (not
less than 85%) and hydrocyanic acid (about 3%).

     Slightly soluble in water; miscible with alcohol or ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Flavoring agent, especially for
  emulsions. Also used as a "sedative," but probably without
  value.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Cc. or 1/2 minim (U.S.P.).

_Aqua Amygdalae Amarae (Aq. Amygd. Amar.), Bitter Almond Water,
U.S.P._--A solution of oil of bitter almond in water.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Amygdalae Compositum (Elix. Amygd. Co.), Compound Elixir of
Almond, N.F._--Oil of bitter almond, vanillin, orange flower water,
syrup, water and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 5 per cent.

_Spiritus Amygdalae Amarae (Sp. Amygd. Amar.), Spirit of Bitter Almond,
U.S.P._--Oil of bitter almond, alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol
content about 76 per cent.


=Oleum Amygdalae Expressum (Ol. Amygd. Exp.), Expressed Oil of Almond,
U.S.P.= (Oil of Sweet Almond).--A fixed oil; similar to olive oil.

  ACTION AND USES: Emollient, nutritive and laxative.


=Oleum Anisi (Ol. Anisi), Oil of Anise, Oil of Star Anise, U.S.P.=
(Anise Oil).--A volatile oil from anise and from star anise.

     Very slightly soluble in water; very soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic carminative and flavor.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.), on sugar.

_Aqua Anisi (Aq. Anisi), Anise Water, U.S.P._--A solution of oil of
anise in water.

_Spiritus Anisi (Sp. Anisi), Spirit of Anise, U.S.P._--Oil of anise
(10%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 85 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=Oleum Aurantii (Ol. Aurant.), Oil of Orange, U.S.P.= (Oleum Aurantii
Corticis, U.S.P. VIII, Orange Oil, Oil of Sweet Orange).--A volatile
oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol and ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic flavor.

_Spiritus Aurantii Compositus (Sp. Aurant. Co.), Compound Spirit of
Orange, U.S.P._--Oils of orange, lemon, coriander and anise, in alcohol.
Absolute alcohol content about 69 per cent.


=Oleum Aurantii Amari (Ol. Aurant. Amar.), Oil of Bitter Orange,
N.F.=--A volatile oil.

     Practically insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol (1:4).

  ACTION AND USES: Flavoring agent.

_Elixir Aurantii Amari (Elix. Aurant. Amar.), Elixir of Bitter Orange,
N.F._ (Replacing Elixir Curassao, N.F. III).--Oil of bitter orange,
tincture of bitter orange peel, stronger orange flower water, in syrup,
water and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 28 per cent.


=Oleum Aurantii Florum (Ol. Aurant. Flor.), Oil of Orange Flowers, N.F.=
(Oil of Neroli).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.


  ACTION AND USES: Flavoring agent.


=Oleum Bergamottae (Ol. Bergam.), Oil of Bergamot, N.F.=--A volatile
oil.

     Practically insoluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Flavoring agent.

_Spiritus Odoratus (Sp. Odorat.), Perfumed Spirit, N.F._--Oils of
bergamot, lemon, rosemary, lavender and orange flowers, acetic ether,
water and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.


=Oleum Betulae Empyreumaticum Rectificatum (Ol. Bet. Empyr. Rect.),
Rectified Oil of Birch Tar, N.F.= (Rectified Empyroligneous Oil of
Birch, Oleum Rusci Rectificatum).--An oil obtained by the dry
distillation of the bark and wood of white birch.

     Insoluble in water; soluble in dehydrated alcohol, ether and
     chloroform.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to tar; employed locally as
  a stimulant and antiseptic in the treatment of psoriasis
  and eczema.

  DOSAGE: 2 to 10 per cent. ointment.


=Oleum Cadinum (Ol. Cadin.), Oil of Cade, U.S.P.= (Cade Oil, Oil of
Juniper Tar, Oleum Juniperi Empyreumaticum).--An empyreumatic oil
obtained by the dry distillation of juniper wood.

     Nearly insoluble in water; only partially soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Epidermal stimulant in chronic
  inflammatory skin diseases, acting similarly to tar.

  DOSAGE: 1 to 10 per cent. ointment.

_Petroxolinum Cadini (Petrox. Cadin.), Cade Petroxolin, N.F._ (Cade
Petrox).--Oil of cade (25%) in liquid petroxolin.


=Oleum Cajuputi (Ol. Cajup.), Oil of Cajuput, U.S.P.= (Cajuput Oil, Oil
of Cajuput).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Counterirritant.


=Oleum Cardamomi (Ol. Cardam.), Oil of Cardamom, N.F.=--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; very soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic flavoring agent.

_Elixir Cardamomi Compositum (Elix. Card. Co.), Compound Elixir of
Cardamom, N.F._--Compound spirit of cardamom, alcohol, syrup and water.
Absolute alcohol content about 9 per cent.

_Spiritus Cardamomi Compositus (Sp. Card. Co.), Compound Spirit of
Cardamom, N.F._--Oil of cardamom, anethol, oils of orange, cinnamon,
caraway and clove, in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 72 per
cent.

  USES: Flavoring agent.


=Oleum Cari (Ol. Cari), Oil of Caraway, U.S.P.= (Caraway Oil).--A
volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic carminative.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Oleum Caryophylli (Ol. Caryoph.), Oil of Clove, U.S.P.= (Clove Oil,
Oil of Cloves).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Externally, rubefacient and counterirritant;
  internally, carminative; to some extent a local
  anesthetic.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Oleum Cassiae (Ol. Cass.), Oil of Cinnamon, U.S.P.= (Oleum Cinnamomi,
U.S.P. VIII, Cassia Oil).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic flavor.

_*Aqua Cinnamomi (Aq. Cinnam.), Cinnamon Water, U.S.P._--A saturated
solution of oil of cinnamon in water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Spiritus Cinnamomi (Sp. Cinnam.), Spirit of Cinnamon, U.S.P._--Oil of
cinnamon (10%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 85 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Oleum Chenopodii (Ol. Chenopod.), Oil of Chenopodium, U.S.P.= (Oil of
American Wormseed).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Anthelmintic, especially for roundworms
  and hookworms.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.). Subminimal
  doses repeated at intervals of several days become toxic.


=Oleum Coriandri (Ol. Coriand.), Oil of Coriander, U.S.P.= (Coriander
Oil).

     Nearly insoluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Carminative aromatic.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).


=Oleum Cubebae (Ol. Cubeb.), Oil of Cubeb, U.S.P.= (Cubeb Oil).--A
volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol (1:18).

  ACTION AND USES: Used internally as a stimulating antiseptic,
  expectorant and against subacute gonorrhea. Of
  doubtful value.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Oleum Eucalypti (Ol. Eucalypt.), Oil of Eucalyptus, U.S.P.=
(Eucalyptus Oil).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; freely soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Largely used especially for inhalation
  in the form of vapor or oily sprays (about 10%) as antiseptic
  and deodorant, for subacute and chronic inflammations
  of the respiratory mucosae.


=Oleum Foeniculi (Ol. Foenic.), Oil of Fennel, U.S.P.= (Fennel Oil).--A
volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic carminative frequently
  employed with purgative medicines to prevent griping.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).

_Aqua Foeniculi (Aq. Foenic.), Fennel Water, U.S.P._--A solution of oil
of fennel in water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).


=Oleum Gossypii Seminis (Ol. Gossyp. Sem.), Cottonseed Oil, U.S.P.=--A
fixed oil.

  ACTION AND USES: Frequently employed in place of olive
  oil, in preparations for external use.


=Oleum Juniperi (Ol. Junip.), Oil of Juniper, U.S.P.= (Juniper Oil, Oil
of Juniper Berries).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Irritant diuretic.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.); not given as
  such.

_Spiritus Juniperi (Sp. Junip.), Spirit of Juniper, U.S.P._--Oil of
juniper (5%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 90 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Spiritus Juniperi Compositus (Sp. Junip. Co.), Compound Spirit of
Juniper, U.S.P._--Oil of juniper (0.4%) and oils of caraway and fennel
in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 66 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.)


=Oleum Lavandulae (Ol. Lavand.), Oil of Lavender, U.S.P.= (Oleum
Lavandulae Florum U.S.P. VIII).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic and flavoring agent.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).

_Acetum Aromaticum (Acet. Arom.), Aromatic Vinegar, N.F._--Acetic acid,
alcohol and water, aromatized with oils of lavender, rosemary, juniper,
peppermint, cinnamon, lemon and clove.

  USES: Refreshing inhalant and counterirritant.

_Mistura Camphorae Aromatica (Mist. Camph. Arom.), Aromatic Camphor
Mixture, N.F._ (Parrish's Camphor Mixture).--Camphor water (about 70%)
in compound tincture of lavender and sugar. Absolute alcohol content
about 17.5 per cent.

  USES: Aromatic carminative.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Mistura Oleo-Balsamica (Mist. Ol.-Balsam.), Oleo-Balsamic Mixture,
N.F._--Oil of lavender, eugenol, oils of thyme, cinnamon, lemon and
nutmeg with balsam of Peru in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 90
per cent.

  ACTION AND USES: Local stimulant.

_Spiritus Lavandulae (Sp. Lavand.), Spirit of Lavender, U.S.P._--Oil of
lavender (5%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 90 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Lavandulae Composita (Tr. Lavand. Co.), Compound Tincture of
Lavender, U.S.P._ (Compound Spirit of Lavender).--Oil of lavender, oil
of rosemary, Saigon cinnamon, clove, nutmeg, and red saunders in alcohol
and water. Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  USES: Aromatic flavor and rubefacient.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.)


=Oleum Limonis (Ol. Limon.), Oil of Lemon, U.S.P.= (Lemon Oil).--A
volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Flavoring agent


=*Oleum Lini (Ol. Lini), Linseed Oil, U.S.P.= (Oil of Flaxseed, Raw
Linseed Oil).--A fixed oil.

  ACTION AND USES: Internally, laxative; its disagreeable
  taste and odor have made it unpopular. Externally, protective
  emollient, especially as Linimentum Calcis (which
  see under Calx) in burns.

  DOSAGE: 30 Cc. or 1 fluidounce (U.S.P.)


=*Oleum Menthae Piperitae (Ol. Menth. Pip.), Oil of Peppermint, U.S.P.=
(Peppermint Oil).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic carminative and flavoring
  agent.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).

_*Aqua Menthae Piperitae (Aq. Menth. Pip.), Peppermint Water, U.S.P._--A
saturated solution of oil of peppermint in distilled water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.)

_*Spiritus Menthae Piperitae (Sp. Menth. Pip.), Spirit of Peppermint,
U.S.P._ (Essence of Peppermint).--Oil of peppermint (10%), colored with
peppermint in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 85 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Trochisci Menthae Piperitae (Troch. Menth. Pip.), Troches of
Peppermint, N.F._--Oil of peppermint, with sugar and mucilage of
tragacanth.

  DOSAGE: 1 troche (N.F.)


=Oleum Menthae Viridis (Ol. Menth. Vir.), Oil of Spearmint, U.S.P.=
(Spearmint Oil).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic carminative and flavoring
  agent.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).

_Aqua Menthae Viridis (Aq. Menth. Vir.), Spearmint Water, U.S.P._--A
solution of oil of spearmint in water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Spiritus Menthae Viridis (Sp. Menth. Vir.), Spirit of Spearmint,
U.S.P._--Oil of spearmint (10%), colored with spearmint, in alcohol.
Absolute alcohol content about 85 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.)


=*Oleum Morrhuae (Ol. Morrh.), Cod Liver Oil, U.S.P.= (Oleum Jecoris
Aselli).--A fixed oil.

  ACTION AND USES: Generally considered to be a food
  rather than a medicine. Its value depends probably entirely
  on its nutritive property. Preferably administered as such
  or in the form of recently prepared emulsions.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Emulsum Olei Morrhuae (Emuls. Ol. Morrh.), Emulsion of Cod Liver Oil,
U.S.P._--Cod liver oil (50%) with acacia, syrup, methyl salicylate and
water. Other flavors may be substituted for the methyl salicylate.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Emulsum Olei Morrhuae cum Calcii Lactophosphate (Emul. Ol. Morrh. c.
Calc. Lactophos.), Emulsion of Cod Liver Oil with Calcium
Lactophosphate, N.F._--Cod liver oil (50%), calcium lactophosphate (5%),
lactic acid, acacia, syrup of Tolu and water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Emulsum Olei Morrhuae cum Calcii Phosphate (Emul. Ol. Morrh. c. Calc.
Phos.), Emulsion of Cod Liver Oil with Calcium Phosphate, N.F._
(Emulsion of Cod Liver Oil with Phosphate of Lime).--Cod liver oil
(50%), precipitated calcium phosphate (3.5%), syrup of Tolu, acacia and
water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Emulsum Olei Morrhuae cum Hypophosphitibus (Emul. Ol. Morrh. c.
Hypophos.), Emulsion of Cod Liver Oil with Hypophosphites, N.F._--Cod
liver oil (50%), calcium hypophosphite (1%), potassium hypophosphite and
sodium hypophosphite (each 0.5%), acacia, syrup and water.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Emulsum Olei Morrhuae cum Malto (Emul. Ol. Morrh. c. Malt.), Emulsion
of Cod Liver Oil with Malt, N.F._--Cod liver oil (30%), extract of malt
(about 55%), tragacanth and water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Emulsum Olei Morrhuae cum Pruno Virginiana (Emul. Ol. Morrh. c. Prun.
Virg.), Emulsion of Cod Liver Oil with Wild Cherry, N.F._--Cod liver oil
(50%), fluidextract of wild cherry (6.5%), acacia, syrup of Tolu and
water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Emulsum Olei Morrhuae cum Vitello (Emul. Ol. Morrh. c. Vitel.),
Emulsion of Cod Liver Oil with Egg, N.F._--Cod liver oil (50%),
glycerite of yolk of egg, syrup of Tolu and water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Oleum Myrciae (Ol. Myrc.), Oil of Myrcia, N.F.= (Oil of Bay).--A
volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatizing agent used in bay-rum.

_Spiritus Myrciae Compositus (Sp. Myrciae Co.), Compound Spirit of
Myrcia, N.F._--Oils of myrcia, orange, pimenta, alcohol and water.
Absolute alcohol content about 58 per cent.

  USES: Perfume and stimulant to the skin.


=Oleum Myristicae (Ol. Myrist.), Oil of Myristica, U.S.P.= (Myristica
Oil, Oil of Nutmeg).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic flavor and carminative.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).


=Oleum Olivae (Ol. Oliv.), Olive Oil, U.S.P.=--A fixed oil.

  ACTION AND USES: Emollient, laxative and nutrient.

  DOSAGE: 30 Cc. or 1 fluidounce (U.S.P.).


=Oleum Picis Liquidae Rectificatum (Ol. Pic. Liq. Rect.), Rectified Oil
of Tar, U.S.P.= (Oleum Picis Liquidae, U.S.P. VIII, Rectified Tar
Oil).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Externally antiseptic, irritant and
  parasiticide; used in skin diseases.

  DOSAGE: Internally, 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).

_Mistura Olei Picis (Mist. Ol. Pic.), Mixture of Oil of Tar, N.F._
(Mistura Picis Liquidae, Tar Mixture).--Rectified oil of tar (3.5%) and
chloroform (1%), with pure extract of glycyrrhiza, sugar and oil of
peppermint in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 16 per
cent.

  USES: Complex, disagreeable expectorant.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Petroxolinum Picis (Petrox. Pic.), Tar Petroxolin, N.F._ (Tar
Petrox).--Rectified oil of tar (25%) in liquid petroxolin.

_Unguentum Picis Compositum (Ung. Pic. Co.), Compound Tar Ointment,
N.F._--Rectified oil of tar (4%), zinc oxide (3%), and tincture of
benzoin in yellow wax, lard and cottonseed oil.


=Oleum Pimentae (Ol. Piment.), Oil of Pimenta, U.S.P.= (Pimento Oil, Oil
of Allspice).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Flavoring agent and carminative.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).


=Oleum Pini Pumilionis (Ol. Pin. Pumil.), Oil of Dwarf Pine Needles,
U.S.P.= (Dwarf Pine Oil).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: More aromatic than oil of turpentine,
  and used as an inhalation in catarrh of the respiratory
  passages.


=*Oleum Ricini (Ol. Ricin.), Castor Oil, U.S.P.=--A fixed oil.

     Soluble in equal parts of alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Effective and prompt cathartic, but
  likely to be followed by constipation and therefore not indicated
  in chronic constipation. Useful as an initial purge
  in acute diarrheas.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Emulsum Olei Ricini (Emul. Ol. Ricin.), Emulsion of Castor Oil,
N.F._--Castor oil (35%), with acacia, flavored with tincture of vanilla,
in syrup and water.

  USES: Renders castor oil somewhat less disagreeable.

  DOSAGE: 45 Cc. or 1-1/2 fluidounces (N.F.).

_Oleum Ricini Aromaticum (Ol. Ricin. Arom.), Aromatic Castor Oil,
N.F._--Castor oil flavored with benzosulphinide, oil of cinnamon, oil of
clove, vanillin and coumarin.

  USES: A partly successful attempt to render castor oil
  less disagreeable.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Oleum Rosmarini (Ol. Rosmar.), Oil of Rosemary, U.S.P.= (Rosemary
Oil).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic flavor and carminative.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Oleum Santali (Ol. Santal.), Oil of Santal, U.S.P.= (Santalwood Oil,
Oil of Sandalwood).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.


  ACTION AND USES: Urinary disinfectant and stimulant.
  Used in subacute stages of cystitis and gonorrhea.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.), preferably in
  capsules.


=Oleum Sassafras (Ol. Sassaf.), Oil of Sassafras, U.S.P.= (Sassafras
Oil).--A volatile oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Flavor; used externally as rubefacient
  counterirritant.


=Oleum Sesami (Ol. Sesam.), Sesame Oil, U.S.P.= (Teel Oil, Benne
Oil).--A fixed oil.

  ACTION AND USES: Emollient, used as substitute for olive
  oil.


=*Oleum Sinapis Volatile (Ol. Sinap. Vol.), Volatile Oil of Mustard,
U.S.P.= (Mustard Oil).--Produced synthetically or from black mustard
seed.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Powerful irritant and rapid vesicant;
  employed as counterirritant dissolved in alcohol or fixed
  oils.

_Linimentum Sinapis Compositum (Lin. Sinap. Co.), Compound Liniment of
Mustard, N.F._--Volatile oil of mustard (3%), fluidextract of mezereum
(20%) and camphor (6%) in castor oil and alcohol.

  USES: Complex and antiquated counterirritant.

_Spiritus Sinapis (Sp. Sinap.), Spirit of Mustard, N.F._--Volatile oil
of mustard (2%) in alcohol.

  USES: Rubefacient.


=*Oleum Terebinthinae (Ol. Tereb.), Oil of Turpentine, U.S.P.=
(Turpentine Oil, "Spirits of Turpentine").--A volatile oil obtained from
the oleoresin of pine wood (turpentine).

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Applied externally, rubefacient and
  counterirritant. For internal use, see Oleum Terebinthinae
  Rectificatum, below.

_Oleum Terebinthinae Rectificatum (Ol. Tereb. Rect.), Rectified Oil of
Turpentine, U.S.P._ (Rectified Turpentine Oil).--Redistilled oil of
turpentine.

  USES: Antiseptic, anthelmintic, diuretic and carminative.
  Used to relieve tympanites.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Cc. or 5 minims (U.S.P.).

_Emulsum Olei Terebinthinae (Emuls. Ol. Tereb.), Emulsion of Oil of
Turpentine, U.S.P._--Rectified oil of turpentine (15%) with expressed
oil of almond, syrup, acacia and water.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 1/2 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Linimentum Terebinthinae (Lin. Terebinth.), Turpentine Liniment,
U.S.P._ (Kentish's Ointment).--Rosin cerate (65%) in oil of turpentine.

_Linimentum Terebinthinae Aceticum (Lin. Terebinth. Acet.), Acetic
Turpentine Liniment, N.F._ (Linimentum Album, Stokes' Liniment, St. John
Long's Liniment).--Oil of turpentine (40%) and acetic acid (8%) with oil
of lemon, fresh egg and rose water.


=*Oleum Theobromatis (Ol. Theobrom.), Oil of Theobroma, U.S.P.= (Butter
of Cacao, Cacao Butter).--A solid fixed oil.

     Melts at body temperature.

  ACTION AND USES: Used principally in suppositories,
  etc.; sometimes in emollient ointments and as a lubricant
  in massage.


=Oleum Thymi (Ol. Thymi), Oil of Thyme, U.S.P.= (Thyme Oil).--A volatile
oil.

     Nearly insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Rubefacient and counterirritant;
  usually applied as a liniment, diluted with a fixed oil or
  the well-known soap liniment. Internally, carminative but
  now seldom used.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Oleum Tiglii (Ol. Tiglii), Croton Oil, U.S.P.=--A fixed oil.

  ACTION AND USES: Very powerful cathartic and gastric
  and intestinal irritant, frequently causing violent vomiting
  and purging, sometimes followed by collapse. Externally,
  rubefacient and vesicant.

  DOSAGE: 0.05 Cc. or 1 minim (U.S.P.). Preferably
  administered in drop doses on sugar or in a pill with
  bread or other absorbent.

_Collodium Tiglii (Collod. Tiglii), Croton Oil Collodion, N.F._--Croton
oil (10%) and flexible collodion.

  USES: There is no advantage in applying croton oil with
  collodion.

_Linimentum Tiglii (Lin. Tiglii), Liniment of Croton Oil, N.F._
(Linimentum Crotonis).--Croton oil (13%), oil of cajuput, and alcohol.

_Linimentum Tiglii Compositum (Lin. Tiglii Co.), Compound Croton Oil
Liniment, N.F._--Croton oil, oil of sassafras and oil of turpentine
(each 20%) and olive oil.


=*Opium (Opium), Opium, U.S.P.=--The dried juice of the opium poppy.
Yields not less than 9.5 per cent. of anhydrous morphine.

  ACTION AND USES: Like those of morphine, but opium is absorbed more
  slowly, and is generally preferred in the treatment of the
  gastro-intestinal tract, especially for the purpose of checking
  diarrhea. It is ineffective for external or local application, because
  the opium alkaloids are not absorbed to any appreciable extent through
  the unbroken skin.

  The routine use of complicated mixtures containing opiates deserves
  condemnation, since opium should not be prescribed unless it is
  adapted to the conditions of the individual patient.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_Acetum Opii (Acet. Opii), Vinegar of Opium, N.F._--Opium (10%) in
diluted acetic acid, flavored with nutmeg and sugar.

  USES: An obsolete and superfluous preparation.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.).

_*Extractum Opii (Ext. Opii), Extract of Opium, U.S.P._ (Powdered
Extract of Opium, Opii Extractum, P.I.).--One Gm. extract represents
about 2 Gm. opium. Yields about 20 per cent. of anhydrous morphine.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.).

_Linimentum Opii Compositum (Lin. Opii Co.), Compound Liniment of Opium,
N.F._ (Canada Liniment).--Tincture of opium (10%), camphor (1.75%), oil
of peppermint (2.5%) in alcohol, fresh egg albumen, ammonia water and
oil of turpentine. Absolute alcohol content about 28 per cent.

  USES: Irrational opium preparation.

_Mistura Camphorae Acida (Mist. Camph. Acid.), Acid Camphor Mixture,
N.F._ (Mistura Antidysenterica, Hope's Mixture).--Tincture of opium
(1.2%) and nitric acid (1.75%) in camphor water.

  USES: Against diarrhea.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Mistura Carminativa (Mist. Carminat.), Carminative Mixture, N.F._
(Dalby's Carminative).--Tincture of opium (2.5%), magnesium carbonate
(6.5%), potassium carbonate (0.3%), with oils of caraway, fennel and
peppermint in syrup and water.

  USES: Against colic.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (N.F.).

_Mistura Glycyrrhizae Composita (Mist. Glycyrrh. Co.), Compound Mixture
of Glycyrrhiza, U.S.P._ (Brown Mixture).--Camphorated tincture of opium
(12%), antimony and potassium tartrate (0.024%), with pure extract of
glycyrrhiza, syrup, acacia and spirit of nitrous ether in water.
Absolute alcohol content about 8 per cent.

  USES: A misnamed but popular expectorant, efficient
  mainly through its opium and antimony.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Mistura Opii et Chloroformi Composita (Mist. Opii et Chlorof. Co.),
Compound Mixture of Opium and Chloroform, N.F._ (Squibb's Diarrhea
Mixture).--Tincture of opium (20%), spirit of camphor (20%), tincture of
capsicum (10%), chloroform (8%) and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content
about 75 per cent.

  USES: Against diarrhea.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Mistura Opii et Rhei Composita (Mist. Opii et Rhei Co.), Compound
Mixture of Opium and Rhubarb, N.F._ (Sun Cholera Mixture).--Tincture of
opium (20%), tincture of rhubarb (10%), tincture of capsicum (10%),
spirit of camphor (20%), spirit of peppermint and alcohol. Absolute
alcohol content about 78 per cent.

  USES: Against diarrhea.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Mistura Opii et Sassafras (Mist. Opii et Sassaf.), Mixture of Opium and
Sassafras, N.F._ (Mistura Sassafras et Opii, N.F. III, Mistura Opii
Alkalina, Godfrey's Cordial).--Tincture of opium (3.5%) and oil of
sassafras (0.1%) with alcohol and potassium carbonate in syrup and
water. Absolute alcohol content about 6.5 per cent.

  USES: Sedative.

  DOSAGE: Infants, 0.3 Cc. or 5 minims (N.F.).

_*Opii Pulvis (Opii Pulv.), Powdered Opium, U.S.P._ (Opii Pulvis,
P.I.).--Contains about 10.25 per cent. of anhydrous morphine.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_Opium Deodoratum (Opium Deod.), Deodorized Opium, U.S.P._--Opium
extracted with benzin. Yields about 10.25 per cent. of anhydrous
morphine.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_Opium Granulatum (Opium Gran.), Granulated Opium, U.S.P._--Yields about
10.25 per cent. of anhydrous morphine.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_Pilulae Opii, Digitalis et Quininae (Pil. Opii Digit. et Quin.), Pills
of Opium, Digitalis and Quinine, N.F._ (Niemeyer Pills for
Phthisis).--Each pill contains powdered opium (0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain),
digitalis and quinine sulphate (each 0.065 Gm. or 1 grain) with
clarified honey.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Opii et Camphorae (Pil. Opii et Camph.), Pills of Opium and
Camphor, N.F._--Each pill contains powdered opium (0.065 Gm. or 1 grain)
and camphor (0.13 Gm. or 2 grains) with clarified honey.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Opii et Plumbi (Pil. Opii et Plumb.), Pills of Opium and Lead,
N.F._--Each pill contains powdered opium and lead acetate (each 0.065
Gm. or 1 grain) with clarified honey.

  USES: Constipative. The internal use of lead is rarely
  advisable.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pulvis Cretae et Opii Aromaticus (Pulv. Cret. et Opii Arom.), Aromatic
Powder of Chalk and Opium, N.F._--Powdered opium (2.5%) and aromatic
powder of chalk.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_*Pulvis Ipecacuanhae et Opii (Pulv. Ipecac. et Opii), Powder of Ipecac
and Opium, U.S.P._ (Compound Powder of Ipecac, Dover's Powder, Opii et
Ipecacuanhae Pulvis Compositus, P.I.).--Powdered opium and ipecac (each
10%) with sugar of milk.

  USES: Especially as diaphoretic in incipient colds.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Ipecacuanhae et Opii (Syr. Ipecac. et Opii), Syrup of Ipecac
and Opium, N.F._ (Syrup of Dover's Powder).--Tincture of ipecac and
opium (8.5%) flavored with spirit of cinnamon and cinnamon water in
syrup.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Tinctura Ipecacuanhae et Opii (Tr. Ipecac. et Opii), Tincture of Ipecac
and Opium, N.F._ (Tincture of Dover's Powder).--Tincture of deodorized
opium (100%) and fluidextract of ipecac (10%) in diluted alcohol.
Absolute alcohol content about 15 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (N.F.).

_*Tinctura Opii (Tr. Opii), Tincture of Opium, U.S.P._ (Laudanum, Opii
Tinctura, P.I.).--Granulated opium (10%) yielding about 1 per cent. of
anhydrous morphine in diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 46
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims.

_*Tinctura Opii Camphorata (Tr. Opii Camph.), Camphorated Tincture of
Opium, U.S.P._ (Paregoric, Opii Tinctura Benzoici P.I.).--Powdered opium
and camphor (each 0.4%), benzoic acid, oil of anise and glycerin in
diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 46 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Opii Crocata (Tr. Opii Crocat.), Tincture of Opium with
Saffron, N.F._ (Sydenham's Laudanum, Tinctura Opii Crocata,
P.I.).--Granulated opium (10%) with saffron, Saigon cinnamon and clove
in diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 45 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.6 Cc. or 10 minims (N.F.).

_*Tinctura Opii Deodorati (Tr. Opii Deod.), Tincture of Deodorized
Opium, U.S.P._--Opium (10%, a purified or deodorized aqueous extract
yielding about 1% anhydrous morphine), in alcohol and water. Absolute
alcohol content about 19 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Pectoralis (Tr. Pectoral.), Pectoral Tincture, N.F._ (Guttae
Pectorales, Pectoral Drops, Bateman's Pectoral Drops).--Opium (0.4%),
gambir (about 0.3%), camphor (0.4%), with oil of anise and caramel in
diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 50 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.6 Cc. or 10 minims (N.F.).


=Ovi Albumen Recens (Ovi Album.), Fresh Egg Albumen, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Used in pharmacy.


=Ovi Vitellum Recens (Ovi Vitel.), Fresh Egg Yolk, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Emulsifying agent.

_Glyceritum Vitelli (Glycer. Vitell.), Glycerite of Egg Yolk, N.F._
(Glyconin).--Fresh yolk of egg and glycerin.


=Ovum Gallinaceum (Ovum Gallin.), Fresh Egg, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Used in pharmaceutical preparations.


=*Oxygenium (Oxygen.), Oxygen, U.S.P.=

  ACTION AND USES: Inhaled for relief of asphyxia, carbon
  monoxide poisoning, etc.


=*Pancreatinum (Pancreat.), Pancreatin, U.S.P.=--Contains enzymes from
the pancreas of the hog or beef, principally amylopsin, trypsin and
steapsin. Converts not less than 25 per cent. of its own weight of
starch into sugars.

     A cream-colored powder with a faint odor.

  ACTION AND USES: Chiefly for the predigestion of protein
  and starchy foods. Incompatible with acids and is
  therefore destroyed by the action of normal gastric juice.
  Occasionally used to assist gastric digestion in achlorhydria
  but the administration of dilute hydrochloric acid
  seems preferable. When the pancreatic juice is absent
  pancreatin may be given in salol-coated pills.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Pancreatini (Liq. Pancreat.), Solution of Pancreatin, N.F._
(Liquor Pancreaticus, N.F. III, Pancreatic Solution).--Pancreatin
(1.75%), sodium bicarbonate (5%), with compound spirit of cardamom,
sodium chloride and chloroform in alcohol, glycerin and water. Absolute
alcohol content about 6 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Pulvis Pancreatini Compositus (Pulv. Pancreat. Co.), Compound
Pancreatin Powder, N.F._ (Pulvis Pancreaticus Compositus, N.F. III,
Peptonizing Powder).--Pancreatin (20%) and sodium bicarbonate.

  USES: Predigestion of milk.


=Papaveris Fructus (Papav. Fruct.), Poppy Capsules, N.F.=--Fully grown
unripe poppy heads.

  ACTION AND USES: Weak and unreliable opiate.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Syrupus Papaveris (Syr. Papaver.), Syrup of Poppy, N.F._--Poppy
capsules (10%) in syrup.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Paracoto (Paracot.), Paracoto, N.F.=--Bark of an unidentified tree.

  ACTION AND USES: At one time used in diarrhea. The
  identity of the drug is uncertain and there is no scientific
  evidence for its value; hence it is now little used.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Paracoto (Fldext. Paracot.), Fluidextract of Paracoto,
N.F._ (Fluidextractum Coto, N.F. III).--Paracoto (100%). Absolute
alcohol content about 75 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Cc. or 5 minims (N.F.).

_Tinctura Paracoto (Tr. Paracoto), Tincture of Paracoto, N.F._ (Tinctura
Coto, N.F. III).--Paracoto (12.5%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content
about 90 per cent.

  USES: Antidiarrheic, of doubtful efficacy.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=*Paraffinum (Paraff.), Paraffin, U.S.P.=--A purified mixture of solid
hydrocarbons, usually obtained from petroleum.

     A white, waxy, odorless and tasteless solid, greasy to the touch,
     melting between 50 and 57 C.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in surgery for prosthetic purposes
  and in pharmacy for raising the melting point of
  ointments and similar products.


=Paraformaldehydum (Paraform.), Paraformaldehyde, U.S.P.= (Paraform,
Trioxymethylene).--A polymeric form of formaldehyde.

     White friable masses or powder with a slight odor of formaldehyde.
     Soluble in cold water, insoluble in alcohol or ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Employed in place of formaldehyde
  to disinfect rooms by vaporization in presence of moisture
  (to insure formation of formaldehyde). As it is active
  only if decomposed there may be some doubt as to its
  efficiency. Internally, it has been used as intestinal antiseptic,
  but is probably useless and may be harmful.


=*Paraldehydum (Paraldehyd.), Paraldehyde, U.S.P.=--A polymer of
acetaldehyde.

     A colorless liquid, having a strong, characteristic odor and an
     extremely unpleasant taste, and producing first a burning and then
     a cooling sensation in the mouth. Soluble in water (1:8), and
     miscible with alcohol or chloroform.

  ACTION AND USES: Prompt and fairly active hypnotic
  and sedative devoid of serious side-effects.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.). Best administered
  with cracked ice or ice-cold liquids.


=Pareira (Pareira), Pareira, N.F.= (Pareira Brava).--Roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete bitter tonic.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Pareirae (Fldext. Pareir.), Fluidextract of Pareira,
N.F._--Pareira (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Passiflora (Passiflor.), Passion Flower, N.F.= (Passion Vine).--Dried
herbage.

  ACTION AND USES: Exploited by manufacturers of proprietary
  remedies for the treatment of insomnia, but
  probably inert.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (N.F.).

_Tinctura Passiflorae (Tr. Passiflor.), Tincture of Passion Flower,
N.F._--Passion flower (20%), in diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol
content about 45 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.6 Cc. or 10 minims (N.F.).


=PASTAE DERMATOLOGICAE, DERMATOLOGIC PASTES.=--Dermatologic pastes are
medicaments for external use. They are ointment-like mixtures containing
starch or dextrin with glycerin, soft soap, petrolatum or lard mixed
with some active medicinal agent. For the official dermatologic pastes
see under the names of the principal constituents.


=*Pelletierinae Tannas (Pellet. Tann.), Pelletierine Tannate, U.S.P.=--A
mixture of alkaloids from pomegranate.

     A light yellow, odorless powder with an astringent taste. Slightly
     soluble in water (1:240) and soluble in alcohol (1:16).

  ACTION AND USES: Anthelmintic and teniafuge.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.). May be
  administered suspended in water. Should be given on an
  empty stomach followed after one or two hours by brisk
  purging. Not more than 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains should be
  given.


=Pepo (Pepo), Pepo, U.S.P.= (Pumpkin Seed).

  ACTION AND USES: Domestic anthelmintic; probably
  inefficient.

  DOSAGE: 30 Gm. or 1 ounce (U.S.P.)


=*Pepsinum (Pepsin.), Pepsin, U.S.P.=--Contains a proteolytic ferment or
enzyme from the stomach of the hog.

     White or yellowish scales, grains, or powder, having a slightly
     acid or saline taste and no offensive odor. Soluble in water
     (1:50); nearly insoluble in alcohol. Digests 3000 times its own
     weight of coagulated egg albumen.

  ACTION AND USES: Used to assist in the gastric digestion
  of proteins. Usually superfluous, since gastric juice generally
  contains sufficient pepsin to perform gastric digestion.
  The alcohol of the elixirs and wines may be distinctly
  harmful in gastric disorders, while the other ingredients
  of the many complex mixtures need be prescribed only when
  direct indications for them exist. Many of these mixtures
  are irrational.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri et Pepsini (Elix. Cinchon. Ferr.
et Pepsin.), Elixir of Cinchona Alkaloids, Iron and Pepsin, N.F._
(Elixir Cinchonae, Ferri et Pepsini, N.F. III, Elixir of Calisaya,
Alkaloidal with Iron and Pepsin).--Glycerite of pepsin (20%) and elixir
of cinchona alkaloids and iron. Absolute alcohol content about 15 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Pepsini (Elix. Pepsin.), Elixir of Pepsin, N.F._--Glycerite of
pepsin (20%), glycerin (10%), hydrochloric acid (0.4%) and aromatic
elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 15 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Pepsini, Bismuthi et Strychninae._--See under =Strychnina=.

_Elixir Pepsini et Bismuthi (Elix. Pepsin. et Bism.), Elixir of Pepsin
and Bismuth, N.F._--Pepsin (0.85%), glycerin (12.5%), glycerite of
bismuth (12.5%) in water and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content
about 10 per cent.

  USES: This preparation lacks the protective action of the
  basic bismuth salts.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Pepsini et Ferri (Elix. Pepsin. et Ferr.), Elixir of Pepsin and
Iron, N.F._--Tincture of ferric citro-chloride (7.5%) and elixir of
pepsin. Absolute alcohol content about 15 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Pepsini et Rennini Compositum (Elix. Pepsin. et Rennin. Co.),
Compound Elixir of Pepsin and Rennin, N.F._ (Essentia Pepsini, N.F.
III).--Pepsin (2.25%), rennin (1.65%), lactic acid, tincture of sweet
orange peel, glycerin, alcohol, oil of myristica and water. Absolute
alcohol content about 19 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Glyceritum Pepsini (Glycer. Pepsin.), Glycerite of Pepsin,
N.F._--Pepsin (8.5%), hydrochloric acid (1%) in glycerin and water.

  DOSAGE: 3 Cc. or 45 minims (N.F.).

_Liquor Pepsini (Liq. Pepsin.), Solution of Pepsin, N.F._--Glycerite of
pepsin (5%) and hydrochloric acid (1%) in glycerin and water.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Liquor Pepsini Antisepticus (Liq. Pepsin. Antisept.), Antiseptic
Solution of Pepsin, N.F._--Pepsin (5%), menthol, eucalyptol, methyl
salicylate, alcohol, glycerin and diluted hydrochloric acid in water.
Absolute alcohol content about 1 per cent.

  USES: This solution appears misnamed, since its administration
  cannot render the stomach antiseptic.

_Liquor Pepsini Aromaticus (Liq. Pepsin. Arom.), Aromatic Solution of
Pepsin, N.F._--Pepsin (1.75%), oils of cinnamon, pimenta and clove,
alcohol, hydrochloric acid and glycerin in water. Absolute alcohol
content about 3 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Pepsinum Saccharatum (Pepsin. Sacchar.), Saccharated Pepsin,
N.F._--Pepsin (10%) with sugar of milk.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Succus Citri et Pepsinum (Suc. Cit. et Pepsin.), Lime Juice and Pepsin,
N.F._ (Succus Limettae cum Pepsino, N.F. III).--Glycerite of pepsin
(40%) and lime juice.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Vinum Pepsini (Vin. Pepsin.), Wine of Pepsin, N.F._ (Pepsin
Wine).--Glycerite of pepsin (20%) in alcohol and sherry wine. Absolute
alcohol content about 23 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Persio (Persio), Cudbear, N.F.= (Red Indigo).--A purplish-red powder
prepared from lichens.

  ACTION AND USES: Coloring agent.

_Tinctura Persionis (Tr. Persion.), Tincture of Cudbear, N.F._--Cudbear
in alcohol and water.

  USES: To impart a reddish color.

_Tinctura Persionis Composita (Tr. Persion. Co.), Compound Tincture of
Cudbear, N.F._--Cudbear and caramel in alcohol and water.

  USES: To impart a reddish-brown color.


=*Petrolatum (Petrolat.), Petrolatum, U.S.P.= (Petrolatum Ointment,
Petroleum Jelly).--A purified mixture of semisolid hydrocarbons from
crude petroleum.

     An unctuous, nearly odorless and nearly tasteless semisolid.
     Insoluble in water and almost insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Protective to the skin and basis for
  ointments, etc.

_Emulsum Petrolati (Emul. Petrolat.), Emulsion of Petrolatum, N.F._
(Emulsum Petrolei, N.F. III).--Petrolatum (22.5%), expressed oil of
almond and acacia in syrup and water flavored with tincture of lemon
peel.

  USES: Emollient laxative.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Petrolatum Album (Petrolat. Alb.), White Petrolatum, U.S.P.= (White
Petroleum Jelly).--Petrolatum decolorized or nearly so.

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of petrolatum.

_*Petrolatum Liquidum (Petrolat. Liq.), Liquid Petrolatum, U.S.P._
(Liquid Paraffin, Mineral Oil).--A mixture of liquid hydrocarbons.
Official as Heavy Liquid Petrolatum and Light Liquid Petrolatum.

     A colorless, transparent, oily, nearly odorless and nearly
     tasteless liquid. Insoluble in water or alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Vehicle for medicinal agents to be
  applied externally or to the mucous membranes of the
  nose and throat. Also given internally largely for its
  mechanical action in constipation. Is not absorbed by the
  intestine and has no nutritive properties.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Nebula Aromatica (Nebul. Arom.), Aromatic Oil Spray, N.F._
(Aromatol).--Light liquid petrolatum aromatized with phenol, menthol,
thymol, camphor, benzoic acid, eucalyptol, oil of cinnamon, oil of clove
and methyl salicylate.

  USES: An aromatic spray.

_Petroxolinum Liquidum (Petrox. Liq.), Liquid Petroxolin, N.F._
(Petrolatum Saponatum Liquidum, N.F. III, Liquid Petrox).--Light liquid
petrolatum and ammonium oleate, scented with oil of lavender and diluted
with water and alcohol.

  USES: A soap-emulsion of petrolatum intended as vehicle
  for oily applications.

_Petroxolinum Spissum (Petrox. Spiss.), Solid Petroxolin, N.F._
(Petrolatum Saponatum Spissum, N.F. III, Solid Petrox).--An ointment
composed of ammonium oleate, white wax, light liquid petrolatum and
alcohol scented with oil of lavender.


=Petroselini Radix (Petrosel. Rad.), Parsley Root, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete carminative.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Petroselini Radicis (Fldext. Petrosel. Rad.),
Fluidextract of Parsley Root, N.F._--Parsley root (100%). Absolute
alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=Petroselinum (Petrosel.), Parsley Fruit, U.S.P.= (Parsley Seed).

  ACTION AND USES: See the oleoresin below.

_Oleoresina Petroselini (Oleores. Petrosel.), Oleoresin of Parsley
Fruit, U.S.P._ (Liquid Apiol).

  USES: Advertised as an emmenagogue, but of doubtful
  value.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.).


=PETROXOLINA, PETROXOLINS.=--The petroxolins are solutions or
suspensions of active medicaments in a mixture of ammonia soap and
petrolatum or liquid petrolatum. Their advantage over other forms of
external applications is doubtful. For official petroxolins see under
the names of the principal ingredients.


=*Phenol (Phenol), Phenol, U.S.P.= (Carbolic Acid).--Hydroxybenzene
obtained from coal-tar or made synthetically.

     Colorless crystals or white crystalline masses, sometimes becoming
     reddish, with a characteristic odor. Soluble in water (1:15), and
     very soluble in alcohol, glycerin or the fixed or volatile oils.

  ACTION AND USES: Standard antiseptic and germicide;
  also local anesthetic and caustic.

_Aqua Phenolata (Aq. Phenol.), Phenolated Water, N.F._ (Carbolic Acid
Water).--Phenol (2%) in water.

_Glyceritum Phenolis (Glycer. Phenol.), Glycerite of Phenol, U.S.P._
(Glycerite of Carbolic Acid).--Liquefied phenol (20%) in glycerin.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Cc. or 5 minims (U.S.P.).

_Oleum Phenolatum (Ol. Phenol.), Phenolated Oil, N.F._ (Oleum
Carbolatum, N.F. III, Carbolized Oil).--Phenol (5%) in olive oil.

  USES: A mild local stimulant and anesthetic but practically
  not antiseptic.

_Petroxolinum Phenolis (Petrox. Phenol.), Phenol Petroxolin, N.F._
(Phenol Petrox).--Phenol (5%) in liquid petroxolin.

_Petroxolinum Phenolis Camphoratum (Petrox. Phenol. Camph.), Camphorated
Phenol Petroxolin, N.F._ (Camphorated Phenol Petrox).--Phenol (12.5%)
and camphor (37.5%) in liquid petroxolin.

_*Phenol Liquefactum (Phenol Liq.), Liquefied Phenol, U.S.P._ (Liquefied
Carbolic Acid).--Phenol liquefied by water (about 10%).

     A colorless liquid, which may become reddish.

  DOSAGE: 0.05 Cc. or 1 minim (U.S.P.).

_Unguentum Phenolis (Ung. Phenol.), Ointment of Phenol, U.S.P._
(Ointment of Carbolic Acid).--Liquefied phenol (2.25%) in ointment.


=Phenol Iodatum (Phenol Iodat.), Iodized Phenol, N.F.= (Acidum
Carbolicum Iodatum, N.F. III).--Iodine (20%) and phenol (60%) in
glycerin.


=*Phenolphthaleinum (Phenolphthal.), Phenolphthalein, U.S.P.=

     White or nearly white, odorless, tasteless powder. Almost insoluble
     in water; soluble in alcohol (1:13).

  ACTION AND USES: Mild but efficient cathartic. It may
  cause some irritation to the rectum and lower bowel and
  very large doses have produced alarming secondary
  symptoms.

  DOSAGE: 0.15 Gm. or 2-1/2 grains (U.S.P.).

_Trochisci Phenolphthaleini (Troch. Phenolphthal.), Troches of
Phenolphthalein, N.F._--Each troche contains phenolphthalein (0.06 Gm.
or 1 grain) with acacia, sugar, vanillin and carmine.

  DOSAGE: 1 troche


=*Phenylis Salicylas (Phenyl. Salicyl.), Phenyl Salicylate, U.S.P.=
(Salol).

     White powder, with an aromatic odor and a slight, characteristic
     taste. Slightly soluble in water (1:6670); freely soluble in
     alcohol (1:6), and in fixed or volatile oils.

  ACTION AND USES: Intestinal antiseptic, by the liberation
  of phenol and salicylic acid.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (U.S.P.) best in powder;
  may be inclosed dry in capsules or cachets.


=*Phosphorus (Phosphor.), Phosphorus, U.S.P.=

     Translucent, nearly colorless, waxy solid with a characteristic
     odor, becoming white, red or black on the surface on long keeping.
     Readily inflammable in air (preserved under water). Almost
     insoluble in water, to which phosphorus imparts its characteristic
     odor and taste; slightly soluble in dehydrated alcohol (1:400) and
     soluble in chloroform (1:17).

  ACTION AND USES: In rickets for stimulation of bone
  formation. Its use as "nerve-food" is irrational.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 mg. or 1/120 grain (U.S.P.). May be
  administered in pills or as phosphorated oil (1:100). The
  preparations are unreliable unless they have been recently
  made, since phosphorus rapidly loses its efficiency through
  oxidation.

_Elixir Phosphori (Elix. Phosphor.), Elixir of Phosphorus,
N.F._--Phosphorus (0.025%) and chloroform in alcohol, glycerin and water
flavored with compound spirit of orange and oil of anise. Absolute
alcohol content about 32 per cent. Deteriorates rapidly.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Elixir Phosphori et Nucis Vomicae (Elix. Phosphor. et Nuc. Vom.),
Elixir of Phosphorus and Nux Vomica, N.F._--Tincture of nux vomica
(3.5%) and elixir of phosphorus. Absolute alcohol content about 32 per
cent.

  USES: An irrational "tonic."

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Liquor Phosphori (Liq. Phosphor.), Solution of Phosphorus, N.F._
(Thompson's Solution of Phosphorus).--Phosphorus (0.07%) in glycerin and
dehydrated alcohol flavored with spirit of peppermint. Absolute alcohol
content about 35 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.6 Cc. or 10 minims (N.F.).

_Oleum Phosphoratum (Ol. Phosphorat.), Phosphorated Oil,
N.F._--Phosphorus (1%), dissolved in ether and added to expressed oil of
almond.

  DOSAGE: 0.05 Cc. or 1 minim (N.F.).

_Pilulae Phosphori (Pil. Phosphor.), Pills of Phosphorus, U.S.P._--Each
pill should contain phosphorus (0.6 mg. or 1/100 grain) coated with
tolu.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (U.S.P.).


=Physostigma (Physostig.), Physostigma, U.S.P.= (Calabar Bean, Ordeal
Bean).--Yields not less than 0.15 per cent. of alkaloids (chiefly
physostigmine).

  ACTION AND USES: Antitetanic, antineuralgic, peristaltic.
  See =Physostigminae Salicylas=, which has the same actions
  and deserves preference because of its uniform composition.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.). Not used as
  such.

_Extractum Physostigmatis (Ext. Physostig.), Extract of Physostigma,
U.S.P._ (Powdered Extract of Physostigma).--One Gm. extract represents
about 13 Gm. of physostigma. Yields about 2 per cent. of alkaloids.

  DOSAGE: 0.008 Gm. or 1/8 grain (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Physostigmatis (Tr. Physostig.), Tincture of Physostigma,
U.S.P._ (Tincture of Calabar Bean).--Physostigma (10%), yielding about
0.015 per cent. of alkaloids. Absolute alcohol content about 92 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Physostigminae Salicylas (Physostig. Salicyl.), Physostigmine
Salicylate, U.S.P.= (Eserine Salicylate).

     Colorless or nearly colorless, odorless crystals. Soluble in water
     (1:75) and in alcohol (1:16).

  ACTION AND USES: Stimulant of parasympathetic nerve
  endings. Used especially as a powerful miotic, particularly
  in glaucoma, sometimes internally against ileus or intestinal
  paresis.

  DOSAGE: Internally, 0.001 Gm. or 1/60 grain (U.S.P.).
  Externally, solutions (should be freshly prepared) from
  0.1 to 1 per cent.


=Phytolacca (Phytolac.), Phytolacca, N.F.= (Poke Root).

  ACTION AND USES: Unreliable irritant, emetic, cathartic
  and "alterative."

  DOSAGE: Emetic, 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.); alterative,
  0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Phytolaccae (Fldext. Phytolac.), Fluidextract of
Phytolacca, N.F._--Phytolacca (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40
per cent.

  DOSAGE: Emetic, 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.); alterative,
  0.1 Cc. or 1-1/2 minims (N.F.).


=*Pilocarpinae Hydrochloridum (Pilocarpin. Hydrochl.), Pilocarpine
Hydrochloride, U.S.P.= (Pilocarpine Chloride).

     Colorless, odorless crystals with a faintly bitter taste. Very
     soluble in water (1:0.3) and freely soluble in alcohol (1:3).

  ACTION AND USES: Used especially to increase sweat and
  other secretions, also as miotic. Must be used with caution
  when the circulation is weak.

  DOSAGE: By mouth 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.);
  hypodermic, 0.005 Gm. or 1/12 grain (U.S.P.). Best
  administered by hypodermic injection.


=*Pilocarpinae Nitras (Pilocarpin. Nit.), Pilocarpine Nitrate, U.S.P.=

     Shining, odorless crystals. Freely soluble in water (1:4) and
     soluble in alcohol (1:75).

  ACTION AND USES: Has no advantage over pilocarpine
  hydrochloride.

  DOSAGE: By mouth, 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.);
  hypodermic, 0.005 Gm. or 1/12 grain (U.S.P.).


=Pilocarpus (Pilocarp.), Pilocarpus, U.S.P.= (Jaborandi).--Leaves,
yielding 0.6 per cent. of alkaloids (chiefly pilocarpine).

  ACTION AND USES: See Pilocarpine.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains.

_Fluidextractum Pilocarpi (Fldext. Pilocarp.), Fluidextract of
Pilocarpus, U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Jaborandi).--Pilocarpus (100%),
yielding about 0.6 per cent. of alkaloids. Absolute alcohol content
about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=PILULAE, PILLS.=--Pills are dosage forms of medicinal substances
intended for administration by the mouth. For the official pills see
under the names of the principal ingredients. For Pilulae ad Prandium
see under =Aloe=; for Pilulae Antidyspepticae, under =Strychnina=; for
Pilulae Antimonii Compositae, under =Antimonium Sulphuratum=; for
Pilulae Antiperiodicae and Pilulae Antiperiodicae sine Aloe, under
=Quininae Sulphas=; for Pilulae Catharticae Compositae, Pilulae
Catharticae Vegetabiles and Pilulae Laxativae Post Partum, under
=Colocynthis=; for Pilulae Ferri, Quininae, Aloes et Nucis Vomicae,
under =Ferri Sulphas=; for Pilulae Ferri, Quininae Strychninae et Arseni
Fortiores and Pilulae Ferri, Quininae, Strychninae et Arseni Mites,
under =Ferri Reductum=; for Pilulae Laxativae Compositae, under
=Aloinum=.


=Pimenta (Piment.), Pimenta, N.F.= (Pimento, Allspice).--Nearly ripe
fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic; stomachic; has no advantage
  over cardamom.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).


=Pimpinella (Pimpinell.), Pimpinella, N.F.= (Pimpernel Root).--Rhizome
and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly used as a diuretic, diaphoretic
  and stomachic. Now obsolete; no definite indications
  for its use.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains.

_Tinctura Pimpinellae (Tr. Pimpinel.), Tincture of Pimpinella,
N.F._--Pimpinella (20%) in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content
about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Pinus Alba (Pinus Alb.), White Pine Bark, N.F.=--Inner bark.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as "expectorant" in proprietary
  cough syrups. Of doubtful value.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains.

_Syrupus Pini Strobi Compositus (Syr. Pin. Strob. Co.), Compound Syrup
of White Pine, N.F._--White pine bark and wild cherry (each 8.5%),
aralia (1%), balsam poplar buds (1%), sanguinaria (0.8%), sassafras
(0.7%) and chloroform (0.6%) in glycerin, alcohol and syrup, colored
with cudbear and flavored with oil of sassafras. Absolute alcohol
content about 12 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Syrupus Pini Strobi Compositus cum Morphina._--See under =Morphinae
Sulphas=.


=Piper (Piper), Pepper, U.S.P.= (Black Pepper).

  ACTION AND USES: Sometimes used as carminative,
  generally in the form of the oleoresin, which is highly
  irritant.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Oleoresina Piperis (Oleores. Piper.), Oleoresin of Pepper, U.S.P._

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.).


=*Pix Liquida (Pix Liq.), Tar, U.S.P.= (Pine Tar).--Obtained by the
destructive distillation of pine wood.

     A semiliquid viscid blackish-brown substance, with an empyreumatic
     odor and taste. Slightly soluble in water; miscible with alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Externally, as antiseptic and stimulant
  in chronic diseases of the skin associated with thickening
  and scaling. Internally, as irritant expectorant in subacute
  bronchitis.

  DOSAGE: Internally, 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.) as
  syrup. Externally, in ointment, at first from 2 to 4 per
  cent., later in higher strength.

_Glyceritum Picis Liquidae (Glycer. Pic. Liq.), Glycerite of Tar,
N.F._--Tar (6.3%) in glycerin, alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol
content about 12 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Liquor Picis Alkalinus (Liq. Pic. Alk.), Alkaline Solution of Tar,
N.F._--Tar (25%), in potassium hydroxide (12.5%), and water.

_Syrupus Picis Liquidae (Syr. Pic. Liq.), Syrup of Tar, U.S.P._--Tar
(0.5%) in alcohol, mixed with syrup. Absolute alcohol content about 5
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_*Unguentum Picis Liquidae (Ung. Pic. Liq.), Tar Ointment, U.S.P._--Tar
(50%), yellow wax and lard.

_Vinum Picis (Vin. Pic.), Wine of Tar, N.F._--Tar (10%) in alcohol and
sherry wine. Absolute alcohol content about 29 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Pix Lithanthracis (Pix Lith.), Coal Tar, N.F.= (Pix
Carbonis).--Obtained by the destructive distillation of coal.

     Nearly black semisolid, with a characteristic naphthalene-like odor
     and a sharp, burning taste. Only slightly soluble in water;
     partially dissolved by alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic and irritant; used in skin
  diseases in the form of:

_Liquor Picis Carbonis (Liq. Pic. Carbon.), Coal Tar Solution,
N.F._--Coal tar (20%), quillaja and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content
about 75 per cent.


=*Plumbi Acetas (Plumb. Acet.), Lead Acetate, U.S.P.= (Sugar of
Lead).--Pb(CH{3}COO){2} + 3H{2}O.

     Colorless, shining transparent crystals or heavy white crystalline
     masses, efflorescent, with a faint vinegar odor and a sweetish,
     astringent, afterward metallic taste. Freely soluble in water
     (1:1.4) and soluble in alcohol (1:38).

  ACTION AND USES: Seldom used internally for fear of
  lead poisoning. Externally, used as astringent lotion.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_Lotio Plumbi et Opii (Lot. Plumb. et Opii), Lotion of Lead and Opium,
N.F._ (Lead and Opium Wash).--A mixture of lead acetate (1.75%) and
tincture of opium (3.5%) in water.

  USES: A popular but irrational application, astringent
  and protective, but not a true anesthetic. The opium alkaloids
  are not absorbed to any appreciable extent through
  the unbroken skin.


=Plumbi Carbonas (Plumb. Carb.), Lead Carbonate, N.F.= (White Lead).--A
mixture of lead carbonate and hydroxide.

     Heavy, white, odorless, tasteless powder. Insoluble in alcohol or
     water.

  ACTION AND USES: External protective and astringent,
  without marked advantage over zinc oxide or the bismuth
  preparations, but involving some danger of lead poisoning.


=Plumbi Iodidum (Plumb. Iod.), Lead Iodide, N.F.=--PbI{2}.

     Heavy, bright yellow, odorless, tasteless powder. Very slightly
     soluble in water (1:1,300), and in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Has been used externally in the form
  of an ointment for application to glandular enlargement
  and for chronic joint enlargement. Its use is irrational.

_Unguentum Plumbi Iodidi (Ung. Plumb. Iod.), Ointment of Lead Iodide,
N.F._--Lead iodide (10%), and benzoinated lard.


=Plumbi Oxidum (Plumb. Oxid.), Lead Oxide, U.S.P.= (Litharge).--PbO.

     Heavy yellowish or reddish-yellow, odorless and tasteless powder or
     minute scales. Almost insoluble in water; insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used to make pharmaceutical
  preparations.

_Emplastrum Plumbi (Emp. Plumb.), Lead Plaster, U.S.P._ (Diachylon
Plaster).--Lead oleate obtained by heating a mixture of lead oxide,
olive oil and lard.

  USES: Used in plaster masses and as a basis for
  diachylon ointment.

_Unguentum Diachylon (Ung. Diachyl.), Diachylon Ointment, U.S.P._--Lead
plaster (50%), oil of lavender and white petrolatum.


=Plumbi Oxidum Rubrum (Plumb. Oxid. Rub.), Red Oxide of Lead, N.F.= (Red
Lead).--Chiefly Pb{3}O{4}.

     Heavy, odorless, tasteless red powder. Almost insoluble in water;
     insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of =Plumbi Carbonas=.


=Plumbi Subacetas, Lead Subacetate.=

  ACTION AND USES: Astringent; used externally in the
  form of the following preparations:

_Ceratum Plumbi Subacetatis (Cerat. Plumb. Subacet.), Cerate of Lead
Subacetate, N.F._ (Goulard's Cerate).--A mixture of solution of lead
subacetate (20%), camphor (2%), wool fat, white wax, and white
petrolatum.

_*Liquor Plumbi Subacetatis (Liq. Plumb. Subacet.), Solution of Lead
Subacetate, U.S.P._ (Goulard's Extract).--Contains lead subacetate
corresponding to about 18 per cent. of lead, Pb.

_Liquor Plumbi Subacetatis Dilutus (Liq. Plumb. Subacet. Dil.), Diluted
Solution of Lead Subacetate, U.S.P._ (Lead Water).--Solution of lead
subacetate (4%) with water.


=*Podophyllum (Podoph.), Podophyllum, U.S.P.= (Mandrake, May Apple
Rhizome).--Yields not less than 3 per cent. of resin.

  ACTION AND USES: See the resin, below.

_Extractum Podophyllum (Ext. Podophyl.), Extract of Podophyllum,
N.F._--A hydro-alcoholic extract.

  DOSAGE: 0.015 Gm. or 1/4 grain (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Podophylli (Fldext. Podophyll.), Fluidextract of
Podophyllum, U.S.P._--Podophyllum (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.).

_*Resina Podophylli (Res. Podoph.), Resin of Podophyllum, U.S.P._
(Podophyllin).--The resin from podophyllum.

  USES: Slow but effective and rather irritant cathartic.

  DOSAGE: 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.).


=Populi Gemmae (Pop. Gem.), Balsam Poplar Buds, N.F.= (Balm of Gilead
Buds).

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to but without advantage
  over cubeb or turpentine. Used almost exclusively in proprietary
  medicines and imitations.


=Potassae Chlorinata, Chlorinated Potassa.=

_Liquor Potassae Chlorinatae (Liq. Pot. Chlorinat.), Solution of
Chlorinated Potassa, N.F._ (Liquor Potassae Chlorate, Javelle
Water).--Potassium carbonate (5.8%), chlorinated lime (8%) and water.

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of Liquor Sodae
  Chlorinatae, which see under =Soda Chlorinata=.


=Potassa Sulphurata (Pot. Sulphurat.), Sulphurated Potassa, U.S.P.=
(Liver of Sulphur).--Chiefly potassium polysulphides and potassium
thiosulphate.

     Irregular pieces, at first liver-brown, later greenish-yellow to
     gray, with a strong hydrogen sulphide odor and a bitter, acrid,
     alkaline taste. Very soluble in water; alcohol dissolves only the
     sulphides. Incompatible with acids and the salts of the heavy
     metals.

  ACTION AND USES: Employed as a parasiticide and to
  stimulate and soften the skin in chronic cutaneous diseases.


=*Potassii Acetas (Pot. Acet.), Potassium Acetate, U.S.P.=--KCH{3}COO.

     White, odorless or nearly odorless powder or crystalline masses
     with a warming, saline taste. Freely soluble in water (1:0.5) and
     in alcohol (1:2.9).

  ACTION AND USES: Systemic alkali and diuretic, practically
  equivalent to sodium acetate. It can easily be administered
  in water and milk, so that there appears to be little
  excuse for the alcoholic elixirs.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Potassii Acetatis (Elix. Pot. Acet.), Elixir of Potassium
Acetate, N.F._--Potassium acetate (8.5%), and aromatic elixir. Absolute
alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Potassii Acetatis et Juniperi (Elix. Pot. Acet. et Junip.),
Elixir of Potassium Acetate and Juniper, N.F._--Potassium acetate
(8.5%), fluidextract of juniper (12.5%) and aromatic elixir. Absolute
alcohol content about 23 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Potassii Arsenas, Potassium Arsenate.=

_Liquor Arsenicalis Clemens (Liq. Ars. Clemens), Clemens' Solution of
Arsenic, N.F._ (Liquor Potassi Arsenatis et Bromidi, N.F. III, Solution
of Potassium Arsenate and Bromides).--Contains potassium arsenate
corresponding to about 1 per cent. of arsenic trioxide, As{2}O{3}.

  USES: A superfluous arsenic solution.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (N.F.).


=Potassii Arsenis, Potassium Arsenite.=

_*Liquor Potassii Arsenitis (Liq. Pot. Arsen.), Solution of Potassium
Arsenite, U.S.P._ (Fowler's Solution, Liquor Arsenicalis, Liquor
Arsenicalis Fowleri, P.I.).--Arsenic trioxide (1%) and potassium
bicarbonate (2%) in compound tincture of lavender and water. Contains
potassium arsenite corresponding to 1 per cent. of As{2}O{3}.

  USES: The most frequently used inorganic arsenical
  preparation. It has an alkaline reaction and therefore
  tends to precipitate alkaloids.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Potassii Bicarbonas (Pot. Bicarb.), Potassium Bicarbonate,
U.S.P.=--KHCO{3}.

     Colorless, transparent crystals or white, granular powder, odorless
     and having a saline, slightly alkaline taste. Freely soluble in
     water (1:2.8) and almost insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Mild alkali; similar to sodium bicarbonate,
  but without advantage over the latter.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Antisepticus Alkalinus (Liq. Antisept. Alk.), Alkaline
Antiseptic Solution, N.F._--Potassium bicarbonate (3.2%), sodium borate
(3.2%) and sodium benzoate (0.8%) with thymol, eucalyptol, oil of
peppermint, methyl salicylate and cudbear in alcohol, glycerin and
water.

  USES: Of slight value as antiseptic, but a pleasant
  cleansing gargle.


=*Potassi Bitartras (Pot. Bitart.), Potassium Bitartrate, U.S.P.= (Cream
of Tartar).

     Colorless, slightly opaque crystals or white, somewhat gritty
     powder, odorless and having an acidulous taste. Only slightly
     soluble in water (1:155) and very slightly soluble in alcohol
     (1:8,820).

  ACTION AND USES: Diuretic and aperient. Frequently
  administered in combination with jalap as a hydragogue
  cathartic. See _Pulvis Jalapae Compositus_ under =Jalapa=.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Potassii Bromidum (Pot. Brom.), Potassium Bromide, U.S.P.=--KBr.

     White crystals or granular powder, odorless and having a strongly
     saline taste. Freely soluble in water (1:1.5); slightly soluble in
     alcohol (1:250).

  ACTION AND USES: Nerve sedative; diminishes reflex
  excitability and depresses the motor area of the cortex.
  Similar to sodium bromide, but more likely to disturb
  digestion.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.); preferably
  administered by itself in simple dilute solutions; increased
  if necessary. Long-continued administration should be
  interrupted occasionally to prevent bromism and accumulation
  in the system.

_Elixir Potassii Bromidi (Elix. Pot. Brom.), Elixir of Potassium
Bromide, N.F._--Potassium bromide (17.5%) in syrup, water and aromatic
elixir; may be colored with compound tincture of cudbear. Absolute
alcohol content about 7.5 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Sal Potassii Bromidi Effervescens (Sal Pot. Brom. Eff.), Effervescent
Salt of Potassium Bromide, N.F._ (Pulvis Potassii Bromidi Effervescens,
N.F. III).--Potassium bromide (16.6%), sodium bicarbonate (53%),
tartaric acid (20.4%) and citric acid, the last-named three yielding
sodium citrate and sodium carbonate.

  DOSAGE: 6 Gm. or 1-1/2 drachms.

_Sal Potassii Bromidi Effervescens Compositus (Sal Pot. Brom. Eff. Co.),
Compound Effervescent Salt of Potassium Bromide, N.F._ (Pulvis Potassii
Bromidi Effervescens cum Caffeina, N.F. III, Effervescent Potassium
Bromide with Caffeine).--Caffeine (0.8%) and potassium bromide (8.3%) in
a mixture of sodium bicarbonate (58.7%), lithium carbonate (4.2%),
tartaric acid (18%) and citric acid. (Yielding citrate and tartrate of
lithium and sodium.)

  USES: "Headache" mixture; generally undesirable.

  DOSAGE: 6 Gm. or 1-1/2 drachms (N.F.).

_Syrupus Bromidorum (Syr. Bromidor.), Syrup of the Bromides,
N.F._--Potassium bromide and sodium bromide (each 8%), ammonium bromide
(5%), calcium bromide (2.5%), lithium bromide (0.8%) flavored with
tincture of vanilla and colored with compound tincture of cudbear in
compound syrup of sarsaparilla and syrup.

  USES: It is very improbable that this complex mixture
  has any advantage over a simple bromide.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=*Potassii Carbonas (Pot. Carb.), Potassium Carbonate,
U.S.P.=--K{2}CO{3}. (A hydrated form is sold as salt of tartar).

     White, odorless, deliquescent granular powder with a strongly
     alkaline taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.9), but insoluble in
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Strongly alkaline and caustic; very
  dilute solutions sometimes used as antacid.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Potassii Chloras (Pot. Chloras), Potassium Chlorate, U.S.P.=--KClO{3}.

     Colorless, lustrous crystals or white, granular powder, odorless
     and having a saline taste. Soluble in water (1:11.5) and almost
     insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as mouthwash and gargles in
  stomatitis, etc. Large doses are actively poisonous, causing
  disintegration of the blood corpuscles. Has been used in
  the form of gargle and troches for sore throat (swallowing
  the latter may be dangerous).

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Trochisci Potassii Chloratis (Troch. Pot. Chlorat.), Troches of
Potassium Chlorate, U.S.P._--Each troche contains potassium chlorate
(0.15 Gm. or 2-1/2 grains) with sugar and tragacanth.


=Potassii Chloridum (Pot. Chlorid.), Potassium Chloride, N.F.=--KCl.

     Colorless crystals or white powder, odorless and having a saline
     taste. Freely soluble in water (1:2.8) and insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Has been recommended for use as
  table salt in place of sodium chloride, in cases in which the
  absorption of salt was thought to be undesirable. Its value
  is not established.


=*Potassii Citras (Pot. Cit.), Potassium Citrate, U.S.P.=

     Transparent crystals or white, granular powder; odorless and having
     a cooling saline taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.6) and almost
     insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Systemic alkali and diuretic like
  potassium acetate, but more laxative.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_*Potassii Citras Effervescens (Pot. Cit. Eff.), Effervescent Potassium
Citrate, U.S.P._--An effervescent mixture representing potassium citrate
(20%), sodium citrate (27.55%) and sodium tartrate (38.7%).

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Potassii Citratis (Liq. Pot. Cit.), Solution of Potassium
Citrate, U.S.P._--Potassium citrate (8%) in water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).


=*Potassii et Sodii Tartras (Pot. et Sod. Tart.), Potassium and Sodium
Tartrate, U.S.P.= (Rochelle Salt).

     Transparent crystals or white powder, odorless and having a
     cooling, saline taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.9).


  ACTION AND USES: Saline cathartic, of relatively unobjectionable
  taste.

  DOSAGE: 10 Gm. or 2-1/2 drachms (U.S.P.) in water.

_*Pulvis Effervescens Compositus (Pulv. Eff. Co.), Compound Effervescing
Powder, U.S.P._ (Seidlitz Powder).--The blue paper contains sodium
bicarbonate (2.5 Gm.) and potassium and sodium tartrate (7.5 Gm.). The
white paper contains tartaric acid (2.16 Gm.).

  DOSAGE: 1 set of two powders (U.S.P.).


=*Potassii Hydroxidum (Pot. Hydrox.), Potassium Hydroxide, U.S.P.=
(Caustic Potash, Potassium Hydrate).--KOH (not less than 85%).

     Dry white or nearly white, odorless, deliquescent, hard and brittle
     flakes, masses or sticks. Very soluble in water (1:0.9) and freely
     soluble in alcohol (1:3).

  ACTION AND USES: Internally, an antacid, but objectionable
  for it is more irritant than the bicarbonate and
  without advantage over the latter. Externally, caustic and
  solvent, but too diffluent.

_*Liquor Potassii Hydroxidi (Liq. Pot. Hydrox.), Solution of Potassium
Hydroxide, U.S.P._ (Liquor Potassae, Solution of Potassa).--KOH (not
less than 4.5%).

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Potassa cum Calce (Pot. c. Calc.), Potassa with Lime, N.F._--Potassium
hydroxide (50%) and calcium oxide.

  USES: Caustic.


=Potassii Hypophosphis (Pot. Hypophos.), Potassium Hypophosphite,
U.S.P.=--KH{2}PO{2}. (Caution should be observed in handling this
product to avoid explosion.)

     White, opaque deliquescent plates, crystalline masses or granular
     powder, odorless and having a pungent, saline taste. Very soluble
     in water (1:0.6) and freely soluble in alcohol (1:9).

  ACTION AND USES: Introduced in common with other
  hypophosphites as a cure for tuberculosis; since used as
  "nerve-foods." There is no proof that the hypophosphites
  exert any physiologic effect, influence any pathologic process,
  or have any food value.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Potassii Iodidum (Pot. Iod.), Potassium Iodide, U.S.P.=--KI.

     Transparent, translucent or opaque crystals or white granular
     powder, with a pungent, saline, afterward bitter taste. Very
     soluble in water (1:0.7) and soluble in alcohol (1:22).
     Incompatible with mineral acids and oxidizing agents and should
     not be prescribed in solution with alkaloids or alkaloid-containing
     drugs.

  ACTION AND USES: Saline expectorant, especially in
  asthma and chronic bronchitis; diuretic; antisyphilitic;
  "alterative" in rheumatic conditions, sclerosis, etc.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (U.S.P.); best administered
  in simple solution and well diluted; in lues the dose
  should be gradually increased to the limit of tolerance.

_Unguentum Potassii Iodidi (Ung. Pot. Iod.), Ointment of Potassium
Iodide, N.F._--Potassium iodide (10%), sodium thiosulphate (1%), water
and benzoinated lard.

  USES: An irrational method of administering potassium
  iodide, as none of the drug is absorbed through the skin.


=Potassi Nitras (Pot. Nitras), Potassium Nitrate, U.S.P.=
(Saltpetre).--KNO{3}.

     Transparent crystals or white powder, odorless and having a cooling
     saline taste. Freely soluble in water (1:2.8) and slightly soluble
     in alcohol (1:620).

  ACTION AND USES: Diuretic, irritant to kidneys and
  intestines; has largely gone out of use.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Charta Potassii Nitratis (Chart. Pot. Nit.), Potassium Nitrate Paper,
N.F._--Paper impregnated with potassium nitrate.

  USES: The smoke is inhaled in asthma, but is not very
  effective.


=*Potassii Permanganas (Pot. Permang.), Potassium Permanganate,
U.S.P.=--KMnO{4}.

     Slender, dark purple odorless crystals, with a taste (in solution)
     at first sweet, afterward disagreeable and astringent. Soluble in
     water (1:13.5), forming violet-red to rose-colored solutions which
     stain the fingers and clothes. Decomposed by alcohol and glycerin.
     Should not be brought into contact with organic or other readily
     oxidizable substances.

  ACTION AND USES: Effective deodorant, disinfectant and
  astringent. Internally as emmenagogue, probably useless.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.), usually in pills.
  For application to the skin, 1:500 solution.


=Potassii Sulphas (Pot. Sulph.), Potassium Sulphate, N.F.=--K{2}SO{4}.

     Colorless crystals or white powder, odorless and having a saline,
     somewhat bitter taste. Freely soluble in water (1:10) and insoluble
     in alcohol.


  ACTION AND USES: Saline purgative closely resembling
  sodium sulphate in its action, but without advantage over
  the latter.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).


=Prunum (Prunum), Prune, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: One of the ingredients in confection
  of senna but seldom used in medicine apart from this.


=*Prunus Virginiana (Prun. Virg.), Wild Cherry, U.S.P.= (Wild Black
Cherry Bark).

  ACTION AND USES: Sedative expectorant, mainly used as
  flavor.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Pruni Virginianae (Fldext. Prun. Virg.), Fluidextract of
Wild Cherry, N.F._--Wild cherry (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Infusum Pruni Virginianae (Inf. Prun. Virg.), Infusion of Wild Cherry,
N.F._--Wild cherry (4%), in glycerin and water.

  DOSAGE: 60 Cc. or 2 fluidounces (N.F.).

_*Syrupus Pruni Virginianae (Syr. Prun. Virg.), Syrup of Wild Cherry,
U.S.P._--Wild cherry bark (15%), in glycerin and syrup.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Vinum Pruni Virginianae (Vin. Prun. Virg.), Wine of Wild Cherry,
N.F._--Wild cherry (25%) in water, alcohol, sugar and sherry wine.
Absolute alcohol content about 23 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Vinum Pruni Virginianae Ferratum (Vin. Prun. Virg. Ferr.), Ferrated
Wine of Wild Cherry, N.F._--Tincture of ferric citrochloride (8%) in
wine of wild cherry. Absolute alcohol content about 21 per cent.

  USES: Superfluous "tonic."

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Pulsatilla (Pulsatil.), Pulsatilla, N.F.= (Pasque Flower, Meadow
Anemone).--The plant.

  ACTION AND USES: Has been recommended as an alterative,
  sedative and antispasmodic. Has been used in syphilis
  with undoubted harmful results because of its inefficiency.
  Its use is fortunately decreasing.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (N.F.).

_Tinctura Pulsatillae (Tr. Pulsatil.), Tincture of Pulsatilla,
N.F._--Pulsatilla (10%) in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content
about 65 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=PULVERES, POWDERS.=--The official powders are mixtures of several
substances in powdered form. For the preparations now official see under
the names of the principal constituents. For Pulvis Antimonialis, see
under =Antimonii Oxidum=; for Pulvis Antisepticus, see under =Zinci
Sulphas=; for Pulvis Aromaticus and Pulvis Cretae Aromaticus, under
=Cinnamomum Saigonicum=; for Pulvis Aromaticus Rubefaciens, under
=Caryophyllus=; Pulvis Cretae Aromaticus et Opii, under =Opium=; for
Pulvis Effervescens Compositus, under =Potassii et Sodii Tartras=; for
Pulvis Glycyrrhizae Compositus, under =Senna=; for Pulvis Ipecacuanhae
et Opii, under =Opium=, and for Pulvis Talci Compositus, under =Acidum
Salicylicum=.


=Pumex (Pumex), Pumice, N.F.=--Consists chiefly of complex silicates of
volcanic origin.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as an abrasive material, and in
  pharmacy as an absorbent.


=Pyrethrum (Pyreth.), Pyrethrum, U.S.P.= (Pellitory Root).

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete, irritant sialagogue and
  local irritant.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Pyrethri (Tr. Pyreth.), Tincture of Pyrethrum, U.S.P._
(Tincture of Pellitory).--Pyrethrum (20%) in alcohol. Absolute alcohol
content about 90 per cent.

  USES: External.


=Pyrogallol (Pyrogall.), Pyrogallol, U.S.P.= (Pyrogallic
Acid).--Trihydroxybenzene.

     Light, white or nearly white, odorless, bitter laminae, fine
     needles or powder. Freely soluble in water (1:1.7) and in alcohol
     (1:1.3).

  ACTION AND USES: Irritant antiseptic in chronic skin
  diseases. Internally highly toxic.

  DOSAGE: 5 per cent. ointment.


=Pyroxylinum (Pyroxylin.), Pyroxylin, U.S.P.= (Soluble Gun
Cotton).--Chiefly cellulose tetranitrate.

     A yellowish-white matted mass of filaments, resembling raw cotton
     in appearance; very inflammable. Slowly but completely soluble in a
     mixture of three volumes of ether and one volume of alcohol. Also
     soluble in acetone and in glacial acetic acid. Practically
     insoluble in alcohol or water.


  ACTION AND USES: Basis for collodions.

_*Collodium (Collod.), Collodion, U.S.P._--Pyroxylin (4%) in a mixture
of ether and alcohol.

  USES: Used to form a protective film and as a vehicle
  for external applications.

_*Collodium Flexile (Collod. Flex.), Flexible Collodion, U.S.P._--A
mixture of collodion (95%) with camphor (2%) and castor oil (3%).

  USES: More pliable than collodion and does not contract
  as much in drying.


=Quassia (Quass.), Quassia, U.S.P.= (Bitter Wood).

  ACTION AND USES: Simple bitter stomachic (more disagreeable
  than gentian); an infusion is also used as enema
  in the treatment of pinworms.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Extractum Quassiae (Ext. Quas.), Extract of Quassia, N.F._ (Powdered
Extract of Quassia).--An aqueous extract diluted with starch, 1 Gm.
representing 10 Gm. of quassia.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Quassiae (Fldext. Quass.), Fluidextract of Quassia,
N.F._--Quassia (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 25 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (N.F.).

_Tinctura Quassiae (Tr. Quas.), Tincture of Quassia, U.S.P._--Quassia
(20%) in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 30 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=Quercus (Querc.), Quercus, N.F.= (White Oak Bark).

  ACTION AND USES: Tannin-bearing astringent, without
  advantage over krameria, etc.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Quercus (Fldext. Querc.), Fluidextract of Quercus,
N.F._--Quercus (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=Quillaja (Quillaja), Quillaja, N.F.= (Soap-tree Bark).

  ACTION AND USES: Contains saponin and has been recommended
  as an expectorant. Similar to, but without advantage
  over senega. Has been used as a detergent and as an
  emulsifying agent; in the latter use is objectionable.

_Tinctura Quillajae (Tr. Quillaj.), Tincture of Quillaja,
N.F._--Quillaja (20%) in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content
about 30 per cent.


=Quinidina (Quinid.), Quinidine, N.F.=--An alkaloid isomeric with
quinine.

     White, odorless crystals or powder, with an intense and persistent
     bitter taste.

  ACTION AND USES: At one time recommended as a cheap
  substitute for quinine. Inferior and obsolete.

  DOSAGE: Tonic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (N.F.); antimalarial,
  1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.) daily.

_Syrupus Quinidinae (Syr. Quinid.), Syrup of Quinidine, N.F._
(Bitterless Syrup of Quinidine).--Quinidine (3.3%) and oil of orange in
syrup.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=*Quinina (Quin.), Quinine, U.S.P.=--Obtained from cinchona bark.

     White, odorless, intensely bitter powder. Very slightly soluble in
     water (1:1560), and very soluble in alcohol (1:0.8).

  ACTION AND USES: Bitter tonic, analgesic and antipyretic;
  specific against malaria. Contraindicated in ear diseases.
  Idiosyncrasies are common.

  The official quinine salts are more numerous than is necessary. Those
  that are starred would meet every indication.

  DOSAGE: Tonic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.); antimalarial,
  at least 1 Gm. or 15 grains daily (U.S.P.).

_Oleatum Quininae (Oleat. Quin.), Oleate of Quinine, N.F._--Quinine
(25%) in oleic acid.


=*Quininae Bisulphas (Quin. Bisulph.), Quinine Bisulphate,
U.S.P.=--Quinine acid sulphate.

     Transparent or whitish, odorless, very bitter crystals. Freely
     soluble in water (1:9) and soluble in alcohol (1:23).

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to, and without advantage
  over, =Quininae Dihydrochloridum=.

  DOSAGE: Tonic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.);
  antimalarial, at least 1 Gm. or 15 grains daily (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Antiperiodica (Tr. Antiperiod.), Antiperiodic Tincture, N.F._
(Warburg's Tincture).--Quinine bisulphate (2%), extract of aloes
(1.75%), rhubarb (0.8%), angelica fruit, elecampane, saffron, fennel,
gentian, zedoary, cubeb, myrrh, camphor, agaric, pepper, Saigon cinnamon
and Jamaica ginger in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about
55 per cent.

  USES: Antiquated, complex and irrational quinine
  mixture.

  DOSAGE: From 4 to 15 Cc. or 1 to 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Tinctura Antiperiodica sine Aloe (Tr. Antiperiod. s. Aloe),
Antiperiodic Tincture without Aloes, N.F._ (Warburg's Tincture without
Aloes).--The same as the preceding (Tinctura Antiperiodica) with the
omission of extract of aloes.

  USES AND DOSAGE: See Tinctura Antiperiodica.


=Quininae Dihydrochloridum (Quin. Dihydrochl.), Quinine Dihydrochloride,
U.S.P.=

     White, odorless, very bitter powder. Very soluble in water (1:0.6),
     and soluble in alcohol (1:12).

  ACTION AND USES: Used where concentrated solutions of
  quinine are wanted, as for subcutaneous injections, etc.

  DOSAGE: Tonic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.);
  antimalarial, at least 1 Gm. or 15 grains daily (U.S.P.).


=*Quininae et Ureae Hydrochloridum (Quin. et Urea. Hydrochl.), Quinine
and Urea Hydrochloride, U.S.P.= (Quinine and Urea Chloride).--A double
salt of quinine and urea.

     Colorless, translucent crystals or white, granular powder, odorless
     and having a very bitter taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.9) and
     freely soluble in alcohol (1:2.4).

  ACTION AND USES: Much less irritating than ordinary
  quinine salts and therefore suited for hypodermic injections,
  in malaria or as local anesthetic.

  DOSAGE: Hypodermic, one dose daily, 1 Gm. or 15 grains
  (U.S.P.). For local anesthesia (hypodermic) solution
  of from 0.25 to 1 per cent.; (applied to mucous membranes),
  solutions of from 10 to 20 per cent.


=Quininae Glycerophosphas (Quin. Glycerophos.), Quinine
Glycerophosphate, N.F.= (Quinine Glycerinophosphate).

     Fine, white, odorless crystals or powder, with a very bitter taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Expensive and superfluous quinine
  salt.

  DOSAGE: Tonic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (N.F.); antimalarial,
  1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).


=Quininae Hydrobromidum (Quin. Hydrobr.), Quinine Hydrobromide, U.S.P.=
(Quinine Bromide).

     Light, white, odorless, very bitter silky needles. Soluble in water
     (1:40), and very soluble in alcohol (1:0.9).

  ACTION AND USES: Superfluous; see =Quininae Hydrochloridum=.

  DOSAGE: Tonic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.);
  antimalarial, at least 1 Gm. or 15 grains, daily (U.S.P.).


=*Quininae Hydrochloridum (Quin. Hydrochl.), Quinine Hydrochloride,
U.S.P.= (Quinine Chloride).

     White, odorless, very bitter, silky needles. Soluble in water
     (1:18) and very soluble in alcohol (1:0.8).

  ACTION AND USES: Has the action of other quinine salts;
  frequently preferred to the sulphate, because neutral and
  more soluble.

  DOSAGE: Tonic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.);
  antimalarial, at least 1 Gm. or 15 grains daily (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Phosphatum cum Quinina et Strychnina (Syr. Phosphat. c. Quin.
et Strych.), Syrup of Phosphates with Quinine and Strychnine, N.F._
(Syrupus Hydrochlorophosphatum, N.F. III, Compound Syrup of
Hydrochlorophosphates).--Quinine hydrochloride (0.44%), strychnine
nitrate (0.014%), compound solution of phosphates (50%) in glycerin and
syrup.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Quininae Hypophosphis (Quin. Hypophos.), Quinine Hypophosphite, N.F.=

     Fine, white, odorless crystals, with a very bitter taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Superfluous quinine salt.

  DOSAGE: Tonic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (N.F.); antimalarial,
  1 Gm. or 15 grains daily (N.F.)


=Quininae Salicylas (Quin. Salicyl.), Quinine Salicylate, U.S.P.=

     Colorless (often becoming pinkish), odorless, bitter needles.
     Soluble in alcohol (1:14) and in glycerin (1:13). Only slightly
     soluble in water.

  ACTION AND USES: Superfluous; see Quininae Hydrochloridum.
  The quantity of salicylate in a dose is usually
  too small to be effective.

  DOSAGE: Tonic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.);
  antimalarial, at least 1 Gm. or 15 grains daily (U.S.P.)


=*Quininae Sulphas (Quin. Sulph.), Quinine Sulphate, U.S.P.=

     White, odorless, very bitter, efflorescent crystals. Slightly
     soluble in water (1:725) and in alcohol (1:107).


  ACTION AND USES: The most commonly used quinine salt
  but inferior to the hydrochloride, the dihydrochloride and
  quinine and urea hydrochloride where a soluble salt is
  desired, and to the alkaloid or the tannate where an
  insoluble one is needed.

  DOSAGE: Tonic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.);
  antimalarial, at least 1 Gm. or 15 grains daily (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum (Elix. Cinchon. Alk.), Elixir of Cinchona
Alkaloids, N.F. (Elixir Cinchonae, N.F._ III, Elixir Calisaya,
Alkaloidal).--Quinine sulphate (0.2%), cinchonidine sulphate (0.1%),
cinchonine sulphate (0.1%), compound tincture of cudbear and aromatic
elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 21 per cent.

  USES: Imitation of cinchona, minus the tannin. No
  advantage over quinine.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum et Hypophosphitum (Elix. Cinchon. et
Hypophos.), Elixir of Cinchona Alkaloids and Hypophosphites, N.F._
(Elixir Cinchonae et Hypophosphitum, N.F. III, Elixir of Calisaya,
Alkaloidal, with Hypophosphites).--Calcium hypophosphite and sodium
hypophosphite (each 1.75%), elixir of cinchona alkaloids (about 85%),
hypophosphorous acid and water. Absolute alcohol content about 18 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri et Calcii Lactophosphatis._--See
under Calcii Lactophosphas.

_Pilulae Antiperiodicae (Pil. Antiperiod.), Antiperiodic Pills, N.F._
(Warburg's Pills).--Each pill contains quinine sulphate (0.09 Gm. or
1-1/2 grains), extract of aloes (0.065 Gm. or 1 grain) and rhubarb
(0.032 Gm. or 1/2 grain) with angelica fruit, elecampane, saffron,
fennel, zedoary, cubeb, myrrh, agaric, camphor and extract of gentian.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Antiperiodicae sine Aloe (Pil. Antiperiod. s. Aloe),
Antiperiodic Pills without Aloes, N.F._ (Warburg's Pills without
Aloes).--Each pill contains quinine sulphate (0.09 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains),
rhubarb (0.032 Gm. or 1/2 grain) with angelica fruit, elecampane,
saffron, fennel, zedoary, cubeb, myrrh, agaric, camphor and extract of
gentian.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).


=*Quininae Tannas (Quin. Tann.), Quinine Tannate, U.S.P.=

     Pale yellow, or yellowish-white, odorless and tasteless, or nearly
     tasteless powder. Only very slightly soluble in water. Somewhat
     more soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used where comparatively tasteless
  preparations are wanted.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (U.S.P.); sometimes
  administered with chocolate or sugar.

_Trochisci Quininae Tannatis (Troch. Quin. Tan.), Troches of Quinine
Tannate, N.F._--Each troche contains quinine tannate (0.06 Gm. or 1
grain) with tragacanth, oil of theobroma, cocoa, sugar and sodium
benzosulphinide.

  DOSAGE: 1 troche (N.F.)


=Quininae Valeras (Quin. Valer.), Quinine Valerate, N.F.=

     White, lustrous crystals, with a valerian-like odor and an
     intensely bitter taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Those of quinine and valerates, but
  disagreeable and superfluous.

  DOSAGE: Tonic, 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (N.F.); antimalarial,
  1 Gm. or 15 grains daily (N.F.).

_Elixir Quininae Valeratis et Strychninae (Elix. Quin. Valer. et
Strych.), Elixir of Quinine Valerate and Strychnine, N.F._ (Elixir
Quininae Valerianatis et Strychninae, N.F. III).--Quinine valerate
(1.75%), strychnine sulphate (0.0175%), compound tincture of cudbear,
distilled water and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 22
per cent.

  USES: Irrational "tonic" mixture.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Renninum (Rennin.), Rennin, N.F.=--Milk-curdling enzyme from the
stomach of the calf.

     Grayish-white or yellowish-white powder or yellowish grains or
     scales, with a characteristic, slightly saline taste and a peculiar
     odor. Slowly soluble in water and in diluted alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: For making wheys and junkets


=Resina (Resin.), Rosin, U.S.P.= (Colophony).--The residue left after
distilling the volatile oil from turpentine (the oleoresin).

  ACTION AND USES: Used in the preparation of ointments
  and plasters. Rubefacient.

_Ceratum Resinae (Cerat. Res.), Rosin Cerate, U.S.P._ (Basilicon
Ointment).--Rosin, yellow wax and lard.

_Ceratum Resinae Compositum (Cerat. Resin. Co.), Compound Rosin Cerate,
N.F._ (Deshler's Salve).--Rosin, yellow wax, prepared suet, turpentine
and linseed oil.

_Emplastrum Elasticum (Emp. Elast.), Rubber Plaster, U.S.P._ (Rubber
Adhesive Plaster).--A mixture of rubber, resins, and waxes, with a
filler of an absorbent powder.

_Emplastrum Resinae (Emp. Res.), Rosin Plaster, U.S.P._ (Rosin Adhesive
Plaster, Adhesive Plaster).--Rosin, lead plaster and yellow wax.


=RESINAE, RESINS.=--Resins are the residues obtained by distilling the
volatile oil from oleoresins or the precipitates obtained from solutions
of resins in alcohol by the addition of water. For the official resins
see under the names of the principal constituents.


=*Resorcinol (Resorcin.), Resorcinol, U.S.P.=
(Resorcin).--Metadihydroxybenzene.

     Colorless or nearly colorless crystals or powder with a faint,
     peculiar odor and a taste at first sweetish, afterward bitter. Very
     soluble in water (1:0.9) and in alcohol (1:0.9).

  ACTION AND USES: Irritant, antiseptic; used internally in
  gastric fermentation; externally in skin diseases.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (U.S.P.).

_Pasta Resorcinolis Fortis (Past. Resorcin. Fort.), Strong Resorcinol
Paste, N.F._ (Lassar's Stronger Resorcinol Paste).--Resorcinol (20%),
zinc oxide (20%), starch and light liquid petrolatum.

_Pasta Resorcinolis Mitis (Past. Resorcin. Mit.), Mild Resorcinol Paste,
N.F._ (Lassar's Mild Resorcinol Paste).--Resorcinol (10%), zinc oxide
(25%), starch and liquid petrolatum.

_Unguentum Resorcinolis Compositus (Ung. Resorcin. Co.), Compound
Resorcinol Ointment, N.F._--Resorcinol, zinc oxide, bismuth subnitrate
and rectified oil of birch tar (each 6%), in yellow wax, petrolatum,
anhydrous wool fat and glycerin.

  USES: Complex antiseptic ointment.


=Rhamnus Cathartica (Rhamn. Cath.), Rhamnus Cathartica, N.F.= (Buckthorn
Berries, Baccae Spinae Cervinae).--Ripe fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Superfluous hydragogue cathartic.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Rhamni Catharticae (Fldext. Rham. Cathart.),
Fluidextract of Rhamnus Cathartica, N.F._--Rhamnus cathartica (100%).
Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).

_Syrupus Rhamni Catharticae (Syr. Rham. Cathart.), Syrup of Rhamnus
Cathartica, N.F._ (Syrup of Buckthorn Berries, Syrupus Spinae
Cervinae).--Fluidextract of rhamnus cathartica (20%), oil of fennel and
oil of cinnamon, in syrup. Absolute alcohol content about 8 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=*Rheum (Rheum), Rhubarb, U.S.P.=--Rhizome and root.

  ACTION AND USES: Efficient and pleasant laxative, its
  action resembling cascara. It is, however, also somewhat
  astringent. Used especially in the form of aromatic tincture
  and aromatic syrup.

  The official preparations of rhubarb are needlessly numerous, those
  that are starred being quite sufficient. Many of the official mixtures
  and pills are unnecessarily complex.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_*Extractum Rhei (Ext. Rhei), Extract of Rhubarb, U.S.P._ (Powdered
Extract of Rhubarb).--One Gm. extract represents 2 Gm. rhubarb.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Rhei (Fldext. Rhei), Fluidextract of Rhubarb,
U.S.P._--Rhubarb (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Fluidglyceratum Rhei (Fldglycer. Rhei), Fluidglycerate of Rhubarb,
N.F._--Rhubarb (100%) in water and glycerin.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).

_Mistura Rhei Alkalina (Mist. Rhei Alk.), Alkaline Mixture of Rhubarb,
N.F._ (Syrupus Rhei et Potassii Compositus, N.F. III, Neutralizing
Cordial).--Fluidextract of rhubarb (1.6%), fluidextract of hydrastis
(0.8%), and potassium carbonate (1.6%) with tincture of cinnamon, spirit
of peppermint in syrup and diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content
about 37 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Mistura Rhei Composita (Mist. Rhei Co.), Compound Mixture of Rhubarb,
N.F._ (Mistura Rhei et Sodae, U.S.P. VIII, Mixture of Rhubarb and
Soda).--Fluidextract of rhubarb (1.5%), fluidextract of ipecac (0.3%),
sodium bicarbonate (3.5%), glycerin and spirit of peppermint in water.
Absolute alcohol content about 4 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm.

_Pilulae Rhei (Pil. Rhei), Pills of Rhubarb, N.F._--Each pill contains
rhubarb (0.2 Gm. or 3 grains) with soap.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).

_Pilulae Rhei Compositae (Pil. Rhei Co.), Compound Pills of Rhubarb,
U.S.P._--Each pill contains rhubarb (0.13 Gm. or 2 grains) and aloes
(0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains) with myrrh and oil of peppermint.

  DOSAGE: 2 pills (U.S.P.).

_Pulvis Rhei Compositus (Pulv. Rhei Co.), Compound Powder of Rhubarb,
U.S.P._ (Gregory's Powder).--Rhubarb (25%), Jamaica ginger (10%) and
magnesium oxide.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Pulvis Rhei et Magnesiae Anisatus (Pulv. Rhei et Magnes. Anis.),
Anisated Powder of Rhubarb and Magnesia, N.F._ (Compound Anise
Powder).--Rhubarb (35%), anethol and heavy magnesium oxide.

  USES: Mild cathartic.

  DOSAGE: For infants, 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (N.F.).

_Syrupus Rhei (Syr. Rhei), Syrup of Rhubarb, U.S.P._--Fluidextract of
rhubarb (10%), spirit of cinnamon and potassium carbonate in water and
syrup.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_*Syrupus Rhei Aromaticus (Syr. Rhei Arom.), Aromatic Syrup of Rhubarb,
U.S.P._ (Spiced Syrup of Rhubarb).--Aromatic tincture of rhubarb (15%)
and potassium carbonate in syrup.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Rhei (Tr. Rhei), Tincture of Rhubarb, U.S.P._--Rhubarb (20%)
and cardamom seed, in glycerin, alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol
content about 46 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Rhei Aquosa (Tr. Rhei. Aq.), Aqueous Tincture of Rhubarb,
N.F._--Rhubarb (10%) and potassium carbonate in cinnamon water, alcohol
and water. Absolute alcohol content about 10 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_*Tinctura Rhei Aromatica (Tr. Rhei Arom.), Aromatic Tincture of
Rhubarb, U.S.P._--Rhubarb (20%), Saigon cinnamon, clove and nutmeg in
glycerin, alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 46 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Rhei Dulcis (Tr. Rhei Dulc.), Sweet Tincture of Rhubarb,
N.F._--Rhubarb (10%), glycyrrhiza, anise and cardamom seed in glycerin,
diluted alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 45 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Tinctura Rhei et Gentianae (Tr. Rhei et Gent.), Tincture of Rhubarb and
Gentian, N.F._--Rhubarb (7%) and gentian (1.75%) in diluted alcohol.
Absolute alcohol content about 45 per cent.

  USES: Stomachic and laxative.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Vinum Rhei Compositum (Vin. Rhei Co.), Compound Wine of Rhubarb, N.F._
(Tinctura Rhei Vinosa, N.F. III).--Fluidextract of rhubarb (8%),
fluidextract of bitter orange peel, tincture of cardamom in sugar and
sherry wine. Absolute alcohol content about 25 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Rhus Glabra (Rhus Glab.), Rhus Glabra, N.F.= (Sumac Berries).

  ACTION AND USES: Tannin-bearing astringent; without
  advantage over krameria, etc.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Rhois Glabrae (Fldext. Rhois Glab.), Fluidextract of
Rhus Glabra, N.F._--Rhus glabra (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.)


=*Rosa, Rose= (Cabbage Rose, _Rosa centifolia_).

  ACTION AND USES: The preparations are used for
  flavoring.

_*Aqua Rosae (Aq. Ros.), Rose Water, U.S.P._--A mixture of stronger rose
water with distilled water.

_Aqua Rosae Fortior (Aq. Ros. Fort.), Stronger Rose Water,
U.S.P._--Prepared by distilling fresh cabbage roses with water.

_Confectio Rosae (Confect. Ros.), Confection of Rose, N.F._--Red rose,
sugar, clarified honey and stronger rose water.

_Unguentum Aquae Rosae (Ung. Aq. Ros.), Ointment of Rose Water, U.S.P._
(Cold Cream).--Sodium borate (0.5%), spermaceti, white wax, expressed
oil of almond, and stronger rose water.

  USES: Emollient


=Rosa Gallica (Rosa Gall.), Red Rose, U.S.P.=--Petals.

  ACTION AND USES: Mildly astringent but used chiefly
  as a flavoring agent in the confection of rose; antiquated.

_Fluidextractum Rosae (Fldext. Rosae), Fluidextract of Rose,
U.S.P._--Red rose (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Infusum Rosae Compositum (Inf. Ros. Co.), Compound Infusion of Rose,
N.F._--Red rose (1.3%) with diluted sulphuric acid and sugar in water.

  DOSAGE: 100 Cc. or 3 fluidounces (N.F.).

_Syrupus Rosae (Syr. Ros.), Syrup of Rose, N.F._--Fluidextract of rose
and diluted sulphuric acid in syrup.


=Rubi Fructus (Rubi Fructus), Blackberries, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Flavor.

_Cordiale Rubi Fructus (Cord. Rubi Fruct.), Blackberry Cordial,
N.F._--Blackberry syrup (about 75%) and diluted alcohol (about 25%),
with cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. Absolute alcohol content about 12 per
cent.

  USES: Used as carminative in summer diarrhea. Not
  very efficient.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Syrupus Rubi Fructi (Syr. Rubi Fruct.), Syrup of Blackberry Fruit,
N.F._--Juice of ripe blackberries in sugar.

  USES: Flavoring vehicle


=Rubi Idaei Fructus (Rubi Idaei Fructus), Raspberries, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Flavoring.

_Syrupus Rubi Idaei (Syr. Rubi Id.), Syrup of Raspberry, N.F._--Juice of
ripe raspberries in sugar.


=Rubus (Rubus), Rubus, N.F.= (Blackberry Bark).--Bark of the rhizome.

  ACTION AND USES: Tannin-bearing astringent without
  advantage over krameria, etc.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Elixir Rubi Compositum (Elix. Rubi Co.), Compound Elixir of Blackberry,
N.F._--Rubus (1.6%), nutgall (1.6%), Saigon cinnamon, clove, mace,
ginger, syrup of blackberry and diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol
content about 10 per cent.

  USES: Used in "summer complaint."

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Rubi (Fldext. Rubi), Fluidextract of Rubus, N.F._--Rubus
(100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).

_Syrupus Rubi (Syr. Rubi), Syrup of Rubus, N.F._--Fluidextract of rubus
(25%) in syrup.

  USES: Intestinal astringent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Rumex (Rumex), Rumex, N.F.= (Yellow Dock, Curled Dock).--Roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete, unreliable and generally
  worthless "alterative and tonic"; mildly laxative.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Rumicis (Fldext. Rumic.), Fluidextract of Rumex,
N.F._--Rumex (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Sabal (Sabal), Sabal, U.S.P.= (Saw Palmetto Berries).--The partially
dried ripe fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Widely exploited as a stimulant of
  the mucous membrane of the genito-urinary tract. Probably
  inferior to santal oil.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Sabal (Fldext. Sabal), Fluidextract of Sabal, U.S.P._
(Fluidextract of Saw Palmetto).--Sabal (100%). Absolute alcohol content
about 70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Sabal et Santali (Tr. Sabal et Santal.), Tincture of Saw
Palmetto and Santal, N.F._--Sabal (20%) and sandalwood (6.5%) in alcohol
and water. Absolute alcohol content about 75 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=*Saccharum (Sacch.), Sugar, U.S.P.= (Sucrose).--Obtained from the
sugar-cane, the sugar-beet, etc.

     White, odorless crystals or powder with a sweet taste.


  ACTION AND USES: Sweetening agent in official syrups
  and other preparations.

_*Syrupus (Syrupus), Syrup, U.S.P._ (Sirup, Simple Syrup).--Sugar (85%)
in water.


=*Saccharum Lactis (Sacch. Lact.), Sugar of Milk, U.S.P.= (Milk Sugar,
Lactose).--Obtained from the whey of cow's milk.

     White, hard, odorless crystalline masses or powder, with a faintly
     sweet taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Less sweet than cane sugar and less
  liable to ferment; slightly laxative and diuretic; frequently
  used to modify cow's milk in the feeding of infants


=SALES EFFERVESCENTES, GRANULAR EFFERVESCENT SALTS.=--Effervescent salts
are mixtures of active constituents with sodium bicarbonate, citric acid
and tartaric acid. They are usually directed to be produced and
dispensed in coarse granules. Their advantage over other methods of
administering active ingredients is rather doubtful. For effervescent
salts included in the Pharmacopeia and in the National Formulary, see
under the names of the active ingredients. For Sal Carolinum Factitium
and Sal Carolinum Factitium Effervescens, see under =Sodii Sulphas=; for
Sal Kissingense Factitium and Sal Kissingense Factitium Effervescens,
see under =Sodii Chloridum=; for Sal Vichyanum Factitium, Sal Vichyanum
Factitium Effervescens and Sal Vichyanum Factitium Effervescens cum
Lithio, see under =Sodii Bicarbonas=.


=Salicinum (Salicin.), Salicin, U.S.P.=--A glucoside obtained from
certain species of willows and poplars.

     White powder, odorless and having a very bitter taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Partially decomposed in the stomach
  and intestines and finally oxidized in the body into salicylic
  acid. Less irritant to the mucous membranes than the
  salicylates but also less certain in its action, and has
  been practically superseded by the latter.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.)


=Sambucus (Sambuc.), Sambucus, N.F.= (Elder Flowers).

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete and worthless remedy in
  dropsy. Large doses are said to act like a hydragogue
  cathartic.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).


=Sanguinaria (Sanguin.), Sanguinaria, U.S.P.= (Blood Root).--Rhizome and
roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Irritant and narcotic; unreliable;
  expectorant in small doses and nauseant in large doses,
  which may produce serious secondary symptoms.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Sanguinariae (Fldext. Sanguin.), Fluidextract of
Sanguinaria, N.F._--Sanguinaria (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Cc. or 1-1/2 minims (N.F.).

_Syrupus Sanguinariae (Syr. Sanguinar.), Syrup of Sanguinaria, N.F._
(Syrup of Bloodroot).--Sanguinaria (22.5%) and acetic acid in syrup.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Tinctura Sanguinariae (Tr. Sanguin.), Tincture of Sanguinaria, U.S.P._
(Tincture of Bloodroot).--Sanguinaria (10%) and hydrochloric acid (1%)
in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 56 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.)


=Santalum Album (Santal. Alb.), Sandal Wood, N.F.= (White Sandal
Wood).--Heartwood.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of =Oleum Santali=,
  which see


=Santalum Rubrum (Santal. Rub.), Red Saunders, U.S.P.=--Heartwood.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a coloring agent


=*Santoninum (Santonin.), Santonin, U.S.P.=--Anhydride or lactone of
santonic acid, obtained from Levant wormseed.

     Colorless crystals or powder, becoming yellow on exposure to light,
     odorless and at first nearly tasteless, afterward becoming bitter.

  ACTION AND USES: Used for its poisonous action on
  intestinal parasites, especially ascaris. When absorbed in
  sufficient amounts it produces yellow vision and epileptiform
  convulsions.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.) in powder or
  capsules.

_Trochisci Santonini (Troch. Santonin.), Troches of Santonin,
N.F._--Each troche contains santonin (0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain), with
tragacanth, sugar, cocoa and vanillin.

  USES: Anthelmintic. Objectionable since their resemblance
  to candy may lead to serious poisoning.

  DOSAGE: 1 troche (N.F.).

_Trochisci Santonini Compositi (Troch. Santonin. Co.), Compound Troches
of Santonin, N.F._ (Troches of Santonin and Calomel).--Each troche
contains santonin and mild mercurous chloride (each 0.03 Gm. or 1/2
grain) with tragacanth, sugar, cocoa and vanillin.

  USES: Anthelmintic; objectionable like Trochisci Santonini,
  which see above.

  DOSAGE: 1 troche (N.F.)


=*Sapo (Sapo), Soap, U.S.P.= (White Castile Soap).--Soap prepared from
olive oil and sodium hydroxide.

     A white or whitish solid or powder, having a faint, peculiar odor
     and an alkaline taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Used chiefly as a detergent and in
  solution as a vehicle for liniments. Also an ingredient of
  pills containing resinous drugs like aloes and scammony.

_Emplastrum Saponis (Emp. Sapon.), Soap Plaster, N.F._--Made from soap
(10%) and lead plaster (90%).

_Linimentum Saponato-Camphoratum (Lin. Sapon.-Camph.), Camphorated Soap
Liniment, N.F._ (Opodeldoc, Solid Opodeldoc).--Camphor (2.5%), ammonia
water, sodium stearate, oil of thyme, oil of rosemary, alcohol and
water. Absolute alcohol content about 75 per cent.

_*Linimentum Saponis (Lin. Sapon.), Soap Liniment, U.S.P._ (Liquid
Opodeldoc).--Soap (6%), camphor (4.5%) in oil of rosemary, alcohol and
water. Absolute alcohol content about 65 per cent.

  USES: Mild rubefacient and vehicle for more active liniments


=*Sapo Mollis (Sapo Moll.), Soft Soap, U.S.P.=--Prepared from cottonseed
oil and potassium hydroxide.

     A soft, unctuous, yellowish-white to brownish-yellow mass, having a
     slight, characteristic odor and an alkaline taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Dissolved in diluted alcohol, is
  employed in the preparation of various liniments, and as
  a detergent.

_Linimentum Saponis Mollis (Lin. Sapon. Moll.), Liniment of Soft Soap,
U.S.P._ (Tincture of Green Soap).--Soft soap (65%) and oil of lavender
in alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 30 per cent.

_Linimentum Saponis Mollis Compositum (Lin. Sapon. Mol. Co.), Compound
Liniment of Soft Soap, N.F._ (Tinctura Saponis Viridis Composita, N.F.
III).--Soft soap (15%), oil of cade (2%) and alcohol. Absolute alcohol
content about 75 per cent.


=Sarsaparilla (Sarsap.), Sarsaparilla, U.S.P.= (Sarsaparilla Root).

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly used in chronic rheumatism,
  skin diseases and syphilis; inefficient and therefore harmful;
  fortunately passing out of use.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Decoctum Sarsaparillae Compositum (Decoc. Sarsap. Co.), Compound
Decoction of Sarsaparilla, N.F._--Sarsaparilla (10%), guaiac wood (2%),
mezereum (1%), sassafras, glycyrrhiza and water.

  USES: Antiquated and useless "alterative."

  DOSAGE: 120 Cc. or 4 fluidounces (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Sarsaparillae (Fldext. Sarsap.), Fluidextract of
Sarsaparilla, U.S.P._--Sarsaparilla (100%). Absolute alcohol content
about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Sarsaparillae Compositum (Fldext. Sarsap. Co.), Compound
Fluidextract of Sarsaparilla, U.S.P._--Sarsaparilla (75%), mezereum
(3%), glycyrrhiza and sassafras. Absolute alcohol content about 40 per
cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Sarsaparillae Compositus (Syr. Sarsap. Co.), Compound Syrup of
Sarsaparilla, U.S.P._--Fluidextract of sarsaparilla (20%), fluidextract
of senna (1.5%), fluidextract of glycyrrhiza, oil of sassafras, oil of
anise, methyl salicylate and alcohol in syrup. Absolute alcohol content
about 10 per cent.

  USES: Irrational mixture; no indications for its use.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.)


=Sassafras (Sassaf.), Sassafras, U.S.P.=--Bark of the root.

  ACTION AND USES: Mild aromatic and carminative containing
  a volatile oil. No advantage over other aromatics,
  such as peppermint, ginger, etc.

  DOSAGE: 10 Gm. or 2-1/2 drachms (U.S.P.)


=Sassafras Medulla (Sassaf. Med.), Sassafras Pith, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Demulcent.

_Mucilago Sassafras Medullae (Mucil. Sassaf. Medul.), Mucilage of
Sassafras Pith, N.F._--Sassafras pith (0.2%) in water.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=Scammoniae Radix (Scam. Rad.), Scammony Root, U.S.P.=

  ACTION AND USES: Used principally for preparing resin,
  in which its activity as a cathartic resides.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Resina Scammoniae (Res. Scamm.), Resin of Scammony, U.S.P._--The resin
from scammony root.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Scilla (Scill.), Squill, U.S.P.=--Fleshy inner scales of a bulb. The
official drug is to be assayed biologically.

  ACTION AND USES: Qualitatively like those of digitalis.
  Has been largely used as a nauseant and expectorant. Has
  no advantage over digitalis, and should pass out of use.
  If used, it should be standardized.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.) of a standardized
  preparation.

_Acetum Scillae (Acet. Scill.), Vinegar of Squill, U.S.P._--Squill (10%)
in diluted acetic acid.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Scillae (Fldext. Scill.), Fluidextract of Squill,
U.S.P._--Squill (100%). Assayed biologically by producing death in the
frog.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Cc. or 1-1/2 minims (U.S.P.). Physicians
  who prescribe it should specify the biologically assayed
  preparation.

_Oxymel Scillae (Oxymel Scill.), Oxymel of Squill, N.F._--Vinegar of
squill (50%) and clarified honey.

  USES: Antiquated and irrational preparation of squill.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_*Syrupus Scillae (Syr. Scill.), Syrup of Squill, U.S.P._--Vinegar of
squill (45%), in sugar and water.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Scillae Compositus (Syr. Scill. Co.), Compound Syrup of Squill,
U.S.P._ (Hive Syrup).--Fluidextract of squill (8%), fluidextract of
senega (8%) and antimony and potassium tartrate (0.2%), in water and
syrup.

  USES: Complex and irrational expectorant.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_*Tinctura Scillae (Tr. Scill.), Tincture of Squill, U.S.P._--Squill
(10%) in alcohol and water. Biologically assayed by producing death in
frogs. Absolute alcohol content about 69 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.). Physicians
  who prescribe it should specify the biologically assayed
  preparation.


=Scoparius (Scopar.), Scoparius, N.F.= (Broom Tops).

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly used as diuretic, laxative
  and cathartic. See Sparteinae Sulphas.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Scoparii (Fldext. Scopar.), Fluidextract of Scoparius,
N.F._--Scoparius (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=*Scopolaminae Hydrobromidum (Scopolamin. Hydrobrom.), Scopolamine
Hydrobromide, U.S.P.= (Hyoscine Hydrobromide, Scopolamine Bromide).--The
hydrobromide of levorotatory scopolamine, also known as hyoscine.

     Colorless, odorless, transparent crystals.

  ACTION AND USES: Closely resembling those of atropine
  in its influence on the nerve endings but differing from the
  latter in having a sedative instead of a stimulating effect
  on the brain. Used as a somnifacient in motor excitement
  and mania; as a preliminary to anesthesia and in "twilight
  sleep," and locally as a mydriatic. Uncertain in its action,
  at times producing acute delirium. The tendency to depress
  the respiratory center must be remembered.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Mg. or 1/200 grain (U.S.P.).


=Scutellaria (Scutell.), Scutellaria, N.F.= (Skullcap).--Plant.

  ACTION AND USES: Claimed, though without reliable
  evidence, to be a tonic, nervine and antispasmodic, particularly
  useful in chorea and convulsions.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Scutellariae (Fldext. Scutellar.), Fluidextract of
Scutellaria, N.F._--Scutellaria (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=Senecio (Senecio), Senecio, N.F.= (Life Root).--Plant deprived of its
root.

  ACTION AND USES: Has been recommended, probably
  without warrant, as a tonic, diuretic, expectorant and
  diaphoretic.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Senecionis (Fldext. Senecion.), Fluidextract of Senecio,
N.F._--Senecio (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Senega (Seneg.), Senega, U.S.P.= (Seneca Snakeroot, Senega Snakeroot).

  ACTION AND USES: Employed as nauseant expectorant
  (by virtue of the irritant saponin).

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Senegae (Fldext. Seneg.), Fluidextract of Senega,
U.S.P._--Senega (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Senegae (Syr. Seneg.), Syrup of Senega, U.S.P._--Fluidextract
of senega (20%) in syrup. Absolute alcohol content about 10 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.)


=*Senna (Senn.), Senna, U.S.P.= (Alexandria Senna or India Senna).

  ACTION AND USES: Efficient cathartic of anthraquinone
  series.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.).

_Confectio Sennae (Confect. Senn.), Confection of Senna, N.F._--Senna
(10%), cassia fistula (16%), tamarind (10%), prune, fig, sugar, oil of
coriander and water.

  USES: A pleasant but needlessly complex laxative.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_*Fluidextractum Sennae (Fldext. Senn.), Fluidextract of Senna,
U.S.P._--Senna (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 25 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Infusum Sennae Compositum (Inf. Senn. Co.), Compound Infusion of Senna,
U.S.P._--Senna (6%), magnesium sulphate (12%), manna (12%) and fennel in
water.

  DOSAGE: 120 Cc. or 4 fluidounces (U.S.P.).

_*Pulvis Glycyrrhizae Compositus (Pulv. Glycyrrh. Co.), Compound Powder
of Glycyrrhiza, U.S.P._ (Compound Licorice Powder).--Senna (18%), washed
sulphur (8%) with glycyrrhiza, oil of fennel and sugar.

  USES: A misnamed senna preparation.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.).

_Species Laxativae (Spec. Lax.), Laxative Species, N.F._ (Species
Laxantes, N.F. III, St. Germain Tea).--Senna (40%), potassium bitartrate
(10%), elder flowers, fennel and anise.

  DOSAGE: 1.3 Gm. or 20 grains (N.F.).

_Syrupus Ficorum Compositus (Syr. Ficor. Co.), Compound Syrup of Figs,
N.F._--Fluidextract of senna (20%), aromatic fluidglycerate of cascara
sagrada (10%), with figs, oil of fennel and spirit of peppermint in
syrup. Absolute alcohol content about 5 per cent.

  USES: Complex and misnamed cathartic, imitating a
  widely advertised "patent medicine."

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_*Syrupus Sennae (Syr. Senn.), Syrup of Senna, U.S.P._--Fluidextract of
senna (25%) and oil of coriander in syrup. Absolute alcohol content
about 5 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Sennae Aromaticus (Syr. Senn. Arom.), Aromatic Syrup of Senna,
N.F._--Fluidextract of senna (12.5%), jalap (5%), rhubarb (1.75%),
Saigon cinnamon, clove, nutmeg, oil of lemon and sugar in diluted
alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 30 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Syrupus Sennae Compositus (Syr. Senn. Co.), Compound Syrup of Senna,
N.F._--Fluidextract of senna (13.5%), fluidextract of rhubarb (3.5%),
fluidextract of frangula (3.5%), methyl salicylate (0.4%) and alcohol in
syrup. Absolute alcohol content about 13 per cent.

  USES: Complex and irrational cathartic.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.)


=Serpentaria (Serpent.), Serpentaria, U.S.P.= (Texas Snakeroot, Virginia
Snakeroot).--Rhizome and root.

  ACTION AND USES: Bitter with no advantage over gentian;
  now less frequently used than formerly.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Serpentariae (Fldext. Serpentar.), Fluidextract of
Serpentaria, N.F._--Serpentaria (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims.

_Tinctura Serpentariae (Tr. Serpent.), Tincture of Serpentaria,
N.F._--Serpentaria (20%) in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content
about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=*Serum Antidiphthericum (Ser. Antidiph.), Antidiphtheric Serum, U.S.P.=
(Diphtheria Antitoxin).--Serum from a horse properly immunized against
diphtheria toxin; has a potency of not less than 250 antitoxic units per
Cc.

  ACTION AND USES: Curative and prophylactic agent in
  diphtheria. The possibility of serum disease must be
  remembered. Caution should be exercised when antidiphtheric
  serum is administered to persons who have had
  asthma, and, above all, "horse asthma." In such cases a
  few drops only of the serum may be injected, followed in
  fifteen or thirty minutes by the full dose.

  DOSAGE: Curative, 10,000 units (U.S.P.); protective,
  1,000 units (U.S.P.); both hypodermic.

_*Serum Antidiphthericum Purificatum (Ser. Antidiph. Purif.), Purified
Antidiphtheric Serum, U.S.P._ (Antidiphtheric Globulins, Concentrated
Diphtheria Antitoxin, Diphtheric Antitoxin Globulins, Refined and
Concentrated Diphtheria Antitoxin).--Certain antitoxic proteins from the
blood serum of a horse properly immunized against diphtheria toxin,
dissolved in physiologic solution of sodium chloride.

  USES: Less apt to produce serum disease.

  DOSAGE: Curative, 10,000 units (U.S.P.); protective,
  1,000 units (U. S, P.); both hypodermic.

_*Serum Antidiphthericum Siccum (Ser. Antidiph. Sicc.), Dried
Antidiphtheric Serum, U.S.P._ (Dried Diphtheria Antitoxin).

  DOSAGE: Curative, 10,000 units (U.S.P.); protective,
  1,000 units (U.S.P.); both hypodermic


=*Serum Antitetanicum (Ser. Antitetan.), Antitetanic Serum, U.S.P.=
(Tetanus Antitoxin).--Serum from a horse properly immunized against
tetanus toxin, dissolved in physiologic solution of sodium chloride.

  ACTION AND USES: Prophylactic agent in tetanus; also
  used for curative purposes.

  DOSAGE: Curative, 10,000 units (U.S.P.); protective,
  1,500 units (U.S.P.); both hypodermic.

_*Serum Antitetanicum Purificatum (Ser. Antitetan. Purif.), Purified
Antitetanic Serum, U.S.P._ (Antitetanic Globulins, Concentrated Tetanus
Antitoxin, Refined and Concentrated Tetanus Antitoxin, Tetanus Antitoxic
Globulins).--Certain antitoxic proteins from the serum of a horse
properly immunized against tetanus toxin.

  DOSAGE: Curative, 10,000 units (U.S.P.); protective,
  1,500 units (U.S.P.); both hypodermic.

_*Serum Antitetanicum Siccum (Ser. Antitetan. Sicc.), Dried Antitetanic
Serum, U.S.P._ (Dried Tetanus Antitoxin).

  USES: May be used as a dusting powder in suspicious
  wounds.

  DOSAGE: Curative, 10,000 units (U.S.P.); protective,
  1,500 units (U.S.P.); both hypodermic.


=Sevum Praeparatum (Sev. Praep.), Prepared Suet, U.S.P.= (Mutton Suet).

     A white, solid, almost odorless fat, having a bland taste when
     fresh, but becoming rancid on prolonged exposure to air.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in the preparation of ointments
  and cerates.

_Sevum Benzoinatum (Sev. Benz.), Benzoinated Suet, N.F._--Benzoin (3%)
in prepared suet.

  USES: Ointment base; superfluous.


=Sinapis Alba (Sinap. Alb.), White Mustard, U.S.P.= (Yellow
Mustard).--Ripe seeds.

  ACTION AND USES: Develops irritant volatile oil on
  contact with water; frequently mixed with black mustard
  in powder for use as ground mustard.

  DOSAGE: Emetic, 10 Gm. or 2-1/2 drachms (U.S.P.).


=*Sinapis Nigra (Sinap. Nig.), Black Mustard, U.S.P.= (Brown
Mustard).--Ripe seeds.

  ACTION AND USES: See =Oleum Sinapis Volatile=.

  DOSAGE: Emetic, 10 Gm. or 2-1/2 drachms (U.S.P.).

_*Emplastrum Sinapis (Emp. Sinap.), Mustard Plaster, U.S.P._ (Charta
Sinapis, U.S.P. VIII, Mustard Paper).--A mixture of black mustard,
deprived of its fixed oil, and a solution of rubber, spread on paper,
cotton cloth or other fabric.

  USES: Counterirritant.


=Soda Chlorinata, Chlorinated Soda.=

  ACTION AND USES: Hypochlorites in acid, alkaline and
  neutral solutions have been found useful in the treatment
  of infected wounds. The alkaline solution is represented
  by the Liquor Sodae Chlorinatae below, and by the Liquor
  Potassae Chlorinatae, which see under Potassa Chlorinata.

_*Liquor Sodae Chlorinatae (Liq. Sod. Chlorinat.), Solution of
Chlorinated Soda, U.S.P._ (Labarraque's Solution).--Chlorine compounds
of sodium containing not less than 2.5 per cent. available Cl.


=Soda cum Calce (Sod. c. Calc.), Soda with Lime, N.F.= (London
Paste).--Sodium hydroxide and calcium oxide (each 50%).

  ACTION AND USES: Caustic.


=Sodii Acetas (Sod. Acet.), Sodium Acetate, U.S.P.=--NaC{2}H{3}O{2} +
3H{2}O.

     Colorless crystals or granular powder, odorless or nearly odorless,
     and having a cooling, saline taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.8)
     and soluble in alcohol (1:19).

  ACTION AND USES: Practically identical with those of
  Potassii Acetas, which see.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).


=Sodii Arsenas (Sod. Arsen.), Sodium Arsenate, U.S.P.= (Arsenas Sodii,
P.I.).--Na{2}HAsO{4} + 7H{2}O.

     Colorless, odorless crystals, efflorescent in dry air, and somewhat
     deliquescent in moist air. Freely soluble in water (1:1.5) and
     slightly soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Has the same general action and uses
  as arsenic trioxide, but is less active.

  DOSAGE: 0.005 Gm. or 1/12 grain (U.S.P.). Usually
  given in the form of solution or pill.

_Sodii Arsenas Exsiccatus (Sod. Arsen. Exsic.), Exsiccated Sodium
Arsenate, U.S.P._--Na{2}HAsO{4}.

     White, odorless, amorphous powder. Freely soluble in water (1:3.1),
     but only slightly soluble in alcohol.

  DOSAGE: 0.003 Gm. or 1/20 grain (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Sodii Arsenatis (Liq. Sod. Arsen.), Solution of Sodium Arsenate,
U.S.P._--Exsiccated sodium arsenate (about 1%) in water.

  USES: No advantage over other arsenicals.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Cc. or 3 minims (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Sodii Arsenatis, Pearson (Liq. Sod. Arsen. Pearson), Pearson's
Solution of Sodium Arsenate, N.F._ (Liquor Arsenicalis
Pearsonii).--Exsiccated sodium arsenate (0.1%) in water. Should not be
confounded with Liquor Sodii Arsenatis, U.S.P., which is ten times
stronger.

  USES: Superfluous arsenic preparation.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=*Sodii Benzoas (Sod. Benz.), Sodium Benzoate,
U.S.P.=--Na(C{6}H{5}.COO).

     White, odorless, sweetish powder. Freely soluble in water (1:1.8),
     and soluble in alcohol (1:61). Incompatible with mineral acids and
     ferric salts.

  ACTION AND USES: Has the action of benzoic acid, but is
  less irritating. Mild antiseptic, practically non-toxic.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).


=Sodii Benzosulphinidum (Sod. Benzosulphin.), Sodium Benzosulphinide,
U.S.P.= (Sodium-Saccharin, Soluble Saccharin).

     Colorless crystals or white powder, odorless or nearly odorless,
     and having an intensely sweet taste. Freely soluble in water
     (1:1.2) and soluble in alcohol (1:50).

  ACTION AND USES: Those of benzosulphinide (saccharin),
  but with the advantage of ready solubility.

  DOSAGE: 0.2 Gm. or 3 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Sodii Bicarbonas (Sod. Bicarb.), Sodium Bicarbonate, U.S.P.= (Baking
Soda).--NaHCO{3}.

     A white, odorless powder, having a cooling, mildly alkaline taste.
     Decomposed by acids and converted by boiling into the normal
     carbonate. Soluble in water (1:10) and insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a non-caustic alkali in conditions
  of acidosis, and to neutralize the acid of the gastric
  juice in hyperacidity and gastric ulcer. May be used
  intravenously in cases of extreme acidosis. Externally,
  used as a mild alkaline wash.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.). For intravenous
  injection a 6 per cent. solution sterilized by boiling and
  thus partly converted into the normal carbonate has been
  recommended. One thousand Cc. of such a solution may
  be injected, but great care must be taken that none of the
  liquid gets outside the veins lest necrosis of the tissues
  occur.

_Liquor Sodae et Menthae (Liq. Sod. et Menth.), Solution of Soda and
Mint, N.F._ (Mistura Sodae et Menthae, N.F. III, Soda Mint).--Sodium
bicarbonate (5%), aromatic spirit of ammonia (1%) and spearmint water.

  USES: Antacid and carminative.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Sal Vichyanum Factitium (Sal Vichy. Fact.), Artificial Vichy Salt,
N.F._--Potassium carbonate (3.85%), magnesium sulphate (8%), sodium
chloride (7.7%) and sodium bicarbonate (84.6%).

  USES: Alkaline saline cathartic.

_Sal Vichyanum Factitium Effervescens (Sal Vichy. Fact. Eff.),
Effervescent Artificial Vichy Salt, N.F._ (Pulvis Salis Vichyani
Factitii Effervescens, N.F. III).--Artificial vichy salt (25%) in a
mixture of sodium bicarbonate (48.5%), tartaric acid (16.45%) and citric
acid (yielding sodium citrate and tartrate).

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Sal Vichyanum Factitium Effervescens cum Lithio (Sal Vichy. Fact. Eff.
c. Lith.), Effervescent Artificial Vichy Salt with Lithium, N.F._
(Pulvis Salis Vichyani Factitii Effervescens cum Lithio, N.F.
III).--Artificial vichy salt (25%), lithium citrate (8.33%) in a mixture
of sodium bicarbonate (44.14%), tartaric acid (12.54%) and citric acid
(yielding sodium tartrate and citrate).

  USES: Irrational laxative mixture. The lithium serves no
  useful purpose.

  DOSAGE: 6 Gm. or 1-1/2 drachms (N.F.).

_Trochisci Sodii Bicarbonatis (Troch. Sod. Bicarb.), Troches of Sodium
Bicarbonate, U.S.P._--Each troche contains sodium bicarbonate (0.18 Gm.)
with sugar, nutmeg and mucilage of tragacanth.


=*Sodii Boras (Sod. Bor.), Sodium Borate, U.S.P.= (Borax, Sodium
Tetraborate, Sodium Pyroborate).--Na{2}B{4}O{7} + 10H{2}O.

     Colorless crystals or white powder, odorless and having a sweetish,
     alkaline taste. Soluble in water (1:15) and insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic detergent and alkaline.
  Used in the form of solution as a wash both externally and
  in the body cavities. Seldom used internally.

  DOSAGE: 0.75 Gm. or 12 grains (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Sodii Boratis Compositus (Liq. Sod. Bor. Co.), Compound Solution
of Sodium Borate, N.F._ (Dobell's Solution).--Sodium borate and sodium
bicarbonate (each 1.5%) and liquefied phenol (0.3%) in glycerin and
water.

  USES: Mild antiseptic.

_Mel Rosae et Sodii Boratis (Mel Ros. et Sod. Bor.), Honey of Rose and
Sodium Borate, N.F._ (Honey of Rose with Borax).--Sodium borate (10%),
glycerin and honey of rose.

  USES: Alkaline demulcent.

_Mel Sodii Boratis (Mel Sod. Bor.), Honey of Sodium Borate, N.F._ (Mel
Boracis, Honey and Borax).--Sodium borate (10%) in glycerin and
clarified honey.

  USES: Alkaline demulcent


=Sodii Boro-Benzoas (Sod. Boro-Benz.), Sodium Boro-Benzoate,
N.F.=--Sodium borate (43%) and sodium benzoate (57%).

  ACTION AND USES: Feeble alkaline antiseptic.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.)


=*Sodii Bromidum (Sod. Brom.), Sodium Bromide, U.S.P.=--NaBr.

     White, odorless crystals or powder, having a saline taste. Freely
     soluble in water (1:1.1) and soluble in alcohol (1:16).

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a nerve sedative and cerebral
  depressant. Practically identical with potassium bromide
  in action and uses, but somewhat less irritating.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Sodii Bromidi (Elix. Sod. Brom.), Elixir of Sodium Bromide,
N.F._--Sodium bromide (1.75%) in syrup, water and aromatic elixir.
Absolute alcohol content about 7.5 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.)


=*Sodii Cacodylas (Sod. Cacodyl.), Sodium Cacodylate, U.S.P.=--Sodium
dimethylarsenate.

     White, odorless, deliquescent crystals or powder. Very soluble in
     water (1:0.5) and freely soluble in alcohol (1:2.5).

  ACTION AND USES: Is slowly decomposed in the tissues
  into trivalent arsenic. The action is thus more gradual
  and less toxic than that of other arsenic compounds. Produces
  garlic breath. Used especially by hypodermic
  injection, in anemias, etc.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.)


=*Sodii Carbonas Monohydratus (Sod. Carb. Monohyd.), Monohydrated Sodium
Carbonate, U.S.P.=--Na{2}CO{3} + H{2}O.

     White, odorless, granular powder having a strongly alkaline taste.
     Freely soluble in water (1:3) and insoluble in alcohol.
     Incompatible with acids and acid salts and with the salts of the
     heavy metals and alkaloids.

  ACTION AND USES: Antacid and detergent; employed in
  medicine chiefly in the preparation of alkaline baths.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.)


=*Sodii Chloridum (Sod. Chlorid.), Sodium Chloride, U.S.P.=--NaCl.

     Colorless crystals or white powder, odorless, and having a saline
     taste. Freely soluble in water (1:2.8), and only slightly soluble
     in alcohol.


  ACTION AND USES: Used for preparing physiologic salt
  solution. Given by mouth in large doses, is emetic and in
  proper dilutions, laxative. Excessive use as a seasoning
  for foods is particularly harmful in nephritis.

  DOSAGE: Emetic, 15 Gm. or 4 drachms (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Sodii Chloridi Physiologicus (Liq. Sod. Chlor. Physio.),
Physiological Solution of Sodium Chloride, U.S.P._ (Physiological Salt
Solution, Normal Salt Solution).--Sodium chloride (0.85%) in water.

  USES: An indifferent vehicle, used especially for intravenous
  injections.

_Sal Kissingense Factitium (Sal Kissingen. Fact.), Artificial Kissingen
Salt, N.F._--Potassium chloride (2.8%), sodium chloride (59.4%),
magnesium sulphate (20%), sodium bicarbonate (17.8%).

  USES: Alkaline saline cathartic.

_Sal Kissingense Factitium Effervescens (Sal Kissingen. Fact. Eff.),
Effervescent Artificial Kissingen Salt, N.F. _(Pulvis Salis Kissingensis
Factitii Effervescens, N.F. III).--Artificial Kissingen salt (40%),
sodium bicarbonate (40.6%), tartaric acid (9.4%) and citric acid
(yielding sodium tartrate and citrate).

  DOSAGE: 5.5 Gm. or 80 grains (N.F.)


=Sodii Citras (Sod. Cit.), Sodium Citrate, U.S.P.=--The hydrated salt.

     White, odorless granular powder or small crystals, having a cooling
     saline taste. Freely soluble in water (1:1.3); insoluble in
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of potassium citrate.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains.

_Liquor Sodii Citratis (Liq. Sod. Cit.), Solution of Sodium Citrate,
N.F._ (Mistura Sodii Citratis, Potio Rivierii).--Sodium citrate (3.5%)
in water.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Liquor Sodii Citro-Tartratis Effervescens (Liq. Sod. Citro-Tart. Eff.),
Effervescent Solution of Sodium Citro-Tartrate, N.F._--Sodium tartrate
(about 8%) with syrup of citric acid (about 12%) and water.

  DOSAGE: The contents of one bottle, about 350 Cc. or
  nearly 12 fluidounces (N.F.)


=Sodii Cyanidum (Sod. Cyanid.), Sodium Cyanide, U.S.P.=--NaCN.

     White masses or powder, odorless when perfectly dry; deliquescent
     in the air and exhaling the odor of hydrocyanic acid. Freely
     soluble in cold water.

  ACTION AND USES: Sodium cyanide replaces potassium
  cyanide, U.S.P. VIII. The alkaline cyanides are rarely
  administered internally, but their use in solution has been
  suggested as a substitute for diluted hydrocyanic acid


=Sodii Glycerophosphas (Sod. Glycerophos.), Sodium Glycerophosphate,
U.S.P.= (Sodium Glycerinophosphate).--Hydrated sodium glycerophosphate.
Represents not less than 68 per cent. of the anhydrous salt.

     White, odorless plates, scales or powder, having a saline taste.
     Very soluble in hot or cold water and nearly insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Has been recommended in solutions
  as a nerve tonic in all kinds of wasting and nervous
  diseases. The weight of evidence indicates that the
  glycerophosphates are not superior to ordinary phosphates
  and that the claims for them as nerve tonics are, therefore,
  unfounded.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Glycerophosphatum Compositum (Elix. Glycerophos. Co.), Compound
Elixir of Glycerophosphates, N.F. _(Compound Solution of
Glycerophosphates).--Solution of sodium glycerophosphate (4%), calcium
glycerophosphate (1.6%), ferric glycerophosphate (0.3%), soluble
manganese glycerophosphate (0.2%), quinine glycerophosphate (0.1%),
strychnine glycerophosphate (0.015%), lactic acid (1%) and compound
spirit of cardamom, in alcohol, glycerin and water. Absolute alcohol
content about 12 per cent.

  USES: A highly complex and therefore irrational preparation
  of the inactive glycerophosphates.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Liquor Sodii Glycerophosphatis (Liq. Sod. Glycerophos.). Solution of
Sodium Glycerophosphate, U.S.P._--Anhydrous sodium glycerophosphate (not
less than 50%) in water.

  DOSAGE: 0.35 Cc. or 6 minims (U.S.P.)


=*Sodii Hydroxidum (Sod. Hydrox.), Sodium Hydroxide, U.S.P.= (Caustic
Soda, Sodium Hydrate).--NaOH (not less than 90%).

     White, odorless masses or hard, brittle sticks. Very soluble in
     water (1:0.9) and very soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Practically identical with those of
  potassium hydroxide.

_*Liquor Sodii Hydroxidi (Liq. Sod. Hydrox.), Solution of Sodium
Hydroxide, U.S.P._ (Liquor Sodae, Solution of Soda).--NaOH (about 5%) in
water.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).


=Sodii Hypophosphis (Sod. Hypophos.), Sodium Hypophosphite,
U.S.P.=--NaH{2}PO{2} + H{2}O.

     Colorless plates or white powder, odorless and having a saline
     taste. Freely soluble in water (1:1) and soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: The hypophosphites have been prescribed
  as "tonics," but all reliable evidence indicates that
  they are inert.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Sodii Hypophosphitis (Elix. Sod. Hypophos.), Elixir of Sodium
Hypophosphite, N.F._--Sodium hypophosphite (3.5%), hypophosphorous acid
(0.4%), and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 21 per cent.

  USES: Objectionable alcoholic preparation of an inactive
  drug.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Syrupus Sodii Hypophosphitis (Syr. Sod. Hypophos.), Syrup of Sodium
Hypophosphite, N.F._--Sodium hypophosphite (3.5%), and hypophosphorous
acid (0.2%) in syrup.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Sodii Indigotindisulphonas (Sod. Indigotin.), Sodium
Indigotindisulphonate, U.S.P.= (Indigo Carmine).

     Blue powder or dark purple paste. Sparingly soluble in water and
     almost insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Coloring agent.


=*Sodii Iodidum (Sod. Iod.), Sodium Iodide, U.S.P.=--NaI.

     Colorless crystals or white powder, odorless and having a saline
     taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.55) and freely soluble in alcohol
     (1:2).

  ACTION AND USES: Practically identical with those of
  potassium iodide, but less disagreeable in taste; perhaps
  somewhat less irritating locally.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Sodii Nitris (Sod. Nitris), Sodium Nitrite, U.S.P.=--NaNO{2}.

     Colorless crystals or white or nearly white masses, sticks or
     powder, odorless and having a mild saline taste. Deliquescent on
     exposure to air, being gradually converted into sodium nitrate.
     Freely soluble in water (1:1.5), but only sparingly soluble in
     alcohol.


  ACTION AND USES: Vasodilator, similar to nitroglycerin.
  The action is probably somewhat slower and more
  prolonged.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).


=Sodii Perboras (Sod. Perbor.), Sodium Perborate, U.S.P.=--NaBO{3} +
4H{2}O (about 86.5%). Should contain not less than 9 per cent. of
available oxygen.

     White, odorless granules or powder, having a saline taste. Soluble
     in water.

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic, deodorant and bactericide;
  in general, similar to hydrogen peroxide.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.); may be applied
  as a dusting powder or in a 2 per cent. solution.


=Sodii Phenolsulphonas (Sod. Phenolsulph.), Sodium Phenolsulphonate,
U.S.P.= (Sodium Sulphocarbolate).--The hydrated salt.

     Colorless, odorless, somewhat efflorescent crystals or granules,
     having a cooling, saline bitter taste. Freely soluble in water
     (1:4.2), and only slightly soluble in alcohol (1:140).

  ACTION AND USES: Phenolsulphonates were introduced
  with the idea that they would be antiseptic like phenol, but
  less toxic. Actually, they are practically inert.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Sodii Phosphas (Sod. Phos.), Sodium Phosphate, U.S.P.=--Na{2}HPO{4} +
12H{2}O, representing about 41.5 per cent. of the anhydrous salt.

     Colorless, odorless, efflorescent crystals or powder, having a
     cooling, saline taste. Freely soluble in water (1:2.7); insoluble
     in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Saline cathartic, similar to magnesium
  and sodium sulphate. The taste is less disagreeable.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.).

_Sodii Phosphas Exsiccatus (Sod. Phos. Exsic.), Exsiccated Sodium
Phosphate, U.S.P._--Na{2}HPO{4}.

     White powder which absorbs moisture readily. Freely soluble in
     water (1:8.1), but insoluble in alcohol.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Liquor Sodii Phosphatis Compositus (Liq. Sod. Phos. Co.), Compound
Solution of Sodium Phosphate, N.F._--Sodium phosphate (100%) and citric
acid in glycerin and water.

  USES: Laxative.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_*Sodii Phosphas Effervescens (Sod. Phos. Eff.), Effervescent Sodium
Phosphate, U.S.P._--Exsiccated sodium phosphate (20%) in a mixture of
sodium bicarbonate (47.7%), tartaric acid (25.2%) and citric acid, the
last three yielding sodium citrate and sodium tartrate.

  DOSAGE: 10 Gm. or 2-1/2 drachms (U.S.P.).


=*Sodii Salicylas (Sod. Salicyl.), Sodium Salicylate,
U.S.P.=--C{6}H{4}(OH) (COONa).

     White or nearly white, odorless or nearly odorless powder having a
     sweet, saline taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.9) and freely
     soluble in alcohol (1:9.2). Incompatible with acids, with acid
     salts and with solutions of many of the alkaloids, particularly
     quinine, which precipitates as the salicylate.

  ACTION AND USES: The salt usually employed to secure
  the constitutional action of salicylic acid.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Sodii Salicylatis (Elix. Sod. Salicyl.), Elixir of Sodium
Salicylate, N.F._--Sodium salicylate (8.5%), syrup, water and aromatic
elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 7 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Elixir Sodii Salicylatis Compositum (Elix. Sod. Salicyl. Co.), Compound
Elixir of Sodium Salicylate, N.F._--Sodium salicylate (8%), fluidextract
of cimifuga (3.2%), fluidextract of gelsemium (1.6%) and potassium
iodide (1.5%) in aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 23 per
cent.

  USES: An irrational rheumatism mixture, constituting an
  invitation to haphazard use.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Liquor Ferri Salicylatis (Liq. Ferr. Salicyl.), Solution of Ferric
Salicylate, N.F._ (Salicylated Mixture of Iron).--Solution containing
ferric salicylate with a large excess of sodium salicylate [obtained by
the interaction of sodium salicylate (12.5%) and tincture of ferric
citrochloride (12.5%)], and ammonium citrate, methyl salicylate,
glycerin and water.

  USES: "Rheumatism remedy." Ferric salicylate has no
  special advantage over the sodium salt.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).


=*Sodii Sulphas (Sod. Sulph.), Sodium Sulphate, U.S.P.= (Glauber's
Salt).--Na{2}SO{4} + 10H{2}O.

     Colorless, odorless, efflorescent crystals, having a bitter, saline
     taste. Freely soluble in water (1:1), but insoluble in alcohol.


  ACTION AND USES: Saline cathartic, more disagreeable
  but less active than magnesium sulphate, over which it
  has no material advantage.

  DOSAGE: 15 Gm. or 4 drachms (U.S.P.).

_Sal Carolinum Factitium (Sal Carol. Fact.), Artificial Carlsbad Salt,
N.F._--This is available in two forms, the dry amorphous form and the
crystalline form, the latter representing about 80 per cent. of water of
crystallization. The dry amorphous form represents potassium sulphate
(2%), sodium chloride (18%), sodium bicarbonate (36%) and hydrated
sodium sulphate (100%).

  USES: Alkaline cathartic.

_Sal Carolinum Factitium Effervescens (Sal Carol. Fact. Eff.),
Effervescent Artificial Carlsbad Salt, N.F._ (Pulvis Salis Carolini
Factitii Effervescens, N.F. III).--Artificial Carlsbad salt (26.6%) in a
mixture of sodium bicarbonate (40%), tartaric acid (15.7%) and citric
acid, the last three yielding sodium citrate and sodium tartrate.

  ACTION AND USES: Cathartic. Its high sodium citrate
  and tartrate content should be borne in mind.

  DOSAGE: 6 Gm. or 1-1/2 drachms (N.F.)


=*Sodii Sulphis Exsiccatus (Sod. Sulphis Exsic.), Exsiccated Sodium
Sulphite, U.S.P.=--Na{2}SO{3} (not less than 90%).

     White, odorless powder, having a cooling, saline sulphurous taste.
     Freely soluble in water (1:3.2), but only sparingly soluble in
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic; principally used externally
  as a wash.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.)


=*Sodii Thiosulphas (Sod. Thiosulph.), Sodium Thiosulphate, U.S.P.=
("Sodium Hyposulphite").--Na{2}S{2}O{3} + 5H{2}O.

     Colorless, odorless crystals, having a cooling, afterward bitter
     taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.5) and insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used externally in the form of a
  lotion as application for ringworm and other parasitic
  diseases. Internally, rarely as cathartic.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.)


=Solanum (Solan.), Solanum, N.F.= (Horsenettle Berries).--Ripe fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Rarely used as a sedative in convulsions
  and epilepsy; probably ineffective.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Solani (Fldext. Solan.), Fluidextract of Solanum,
N.F._--Solanum (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=Sparteinae Sulphas (Spartein. Sulph.), Sparteine Sulphate, U.S.P.=

     Colorless, odorless, hygroscopic crystals or powder, having a
     slightly saline and somewhat bitter taste. Freely soluble in water
     (1:1.1) and in alcohol (1:3).

  ACTION AND USES: Has been widely exploited as a
  diuretic, but on insufficient evidence. Is of little use and
  is now less frequently employed than formerly. Large doses
  slow and weaken the heart.

  DOSAGE: 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.)


=SPECIES.=--Mixtures of vegetable drugs used as teas or poultices. For
the official mixtures, see Species Emollientes, N.F., under =Althaea
Folia;= Species Laxativae, N.F., under =Senna=, and Species Pectorales,
under =Althaea=.


=Spigelia (Spigelia), Spigelia, U.S.P.= (Pinkroot).--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete anthelmintic for ascarides.
  Inferior to santonin.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Spigeliae (Fldext. Spigel.), Fluidextract of Spigelia,
U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Pinkroot).--Spigelia (100%). Absolute alcohol
content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.)


=SPIRITUS, SPIRITS.--=Alcoholic solutions of either gaseous, liquid, or
solid volatile substances.

For the official spirits, see under the names of the respective
principal constituents. For Spiritus Cinnamomi, see under =Oleum
Cassiae=; for Spiritus Odoratus, under =Oleum Bergamottae=. For the
following, see under the respective oils: Spiritus Amygdalae Amarae,
Spiritus Anisi, Spiritus Aurantii Compositus, Spiritus Cardamomi
Compositus, Spiritus Juniperi, Spiritus Juniperi Compositus, Spiritus
Lavandulae, Spiritus Menthae Piperitae, Spiritus Menthae Viridis,
Spiritus Myrciae Compositus, Spiritus Sinapis.


=SPIRITUS OLEORUM VOLATILIUM, SPIRITS OF VOLATILE OILS=.--Volatile oil
(6.5%) in alcohol.


=Staphisagria (Staphisag.), Staphisagria, U.S.P.= (Stavesacre).--Seeds.

  ACTION AND USES: To destroy pediculi. The contained
  alkaloid, delphinine, is toxic, resembling aconitine in its
  physiologic action.

  DOSAGE: Used as an ointment or lotion.

_Fluidextractum Staphisagria (Fldext. Staphisag.), Fluidextract of
Staphisagria, U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Stavesacre).--Staphisagria
(100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.


=STILI DILUBILES (STIL. DILUB.), PASTE PENCILS,= (Unna Pencils).--Paste
pencils are for the direct application of medicinal agents to the skin
in dermatologic practice. The paste consists of starch, dextrin,
tragacanth and sugar with sufficient water to form a plastic mass. For
the official paste pencils, see Stili Acidi Salicylici Dilubiles, under
=Acidum Salicylicum=.


=Stillingia (Stilling.), Stillingia, U.S.P.= (Queen's Root).

  ACTION AND USES: Has been used as a sialagogue and expectorant. Has
  no advantage over senega; is now less frequently used than formerly.

  The compound fluidextract and syrup are antiquated "alteratives," at
  one time used especially against syphilis and scrofula. They are
  complex and inefficient, and therefore irrational and harmful.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Stillingiae (Fldext. Stilling.), Fluidextract of
Stillingia, U.S.P._--Stillingia (100%). Absolute alcohol content about
40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Stillingiae Compositum (Fldext. Stilling. Co.), Compound
Fluidextract of Stillingia, N.F._--Stillingia (25%), corydalis (25%),
blue flag (12.5%), sambucus (12.5%), chimaphila (12.5%), prickly ash
berries (6.2%) and coriander (6.2%) in glycerin, alcohol and water.
Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Syrupus Stillingiae Compositus (Syr. Stilling. Co.), Compound Syrup of
Stillingia, N.F._--Compound fluidextract of stillingia (25%) in glycerin
and syrup. Absolute alcohol content about 10 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.)


=*Stramonium (Stramon.), Stramonium, U.S.P.= (Jamestown Weed, Jimson
Weed).--Leaves, containing not less than 0.25 per cent. of alkaloids.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of belladonna, over
  which it has no advantage. Often used in "asthma
  powders."

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_Extractum Stramonii (Ext. Stramon.), Extract of Stramonium,
U.S.P._--Two forms: Pilular extract of stramonium and powdered extract
of stramonium. One Gm. of extract represents about 4 Gm. of stramonium
and yields about 1 per cent. of alkaloids.

  DOSAGE: 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Stramonii (Fldext. Stramon.), Fluidextract of
Stramonium, N.F._--Stramonium (100%), yielding about 0.25 per cent. of
alkaloids. Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.05 Cc. or 1 minim (N.F.).

_Tinctura Stramonii (Tr. Stramon.), Tincture of Stramonium,
U.S.P._--Stramonium (10%), yielding about 0.025 per cent. of stramonium
alkaloids. Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.).

_Unguentum Stramonii (Ung. Stramon.), Stramonium Ointment,
U.S.P._--Pilular extract of stramonium (10%), diluted alcohol, hydrous
wool fat and benzoinated lard.


=Strontii Bromidum (Stront. Brom.), Strontium Bromide, U.S.P.=--SrBr{2}
+ 6H{2}O.

     Colorless, odorless crystals, having a bitter, saline taste. Very
     soluble in water (1:0.35); soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of sodium bromide
  over which it has no definite advantage.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.)


=Strontii Carbonas (Stront. Carb.), Strontium Carbonate, N.F.=--SrCO{3}.

     White, odorless, tasteless powder. Insoluble in water and in
     alcohol. Decomposed by acids.

  ACTION AND USES: Of use only in the making of soluble
  salts of strontium


=Strontii Iodidum (Stront. Iod.), Strontium Iodide, U.S.P.=--SrI{2} +
6H{2}O.

     Colorless crystals or white powder or crystalline crusts, turning
     yellow on exposure to light; odorless, deliquescent and having a
     bitter saline taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.2); somewhat less
     soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to, but without definite advantage
  over potassium iodide.

  DOSAGE: 0.3 Gm. or 5 grains (U.S.P.)


=Strontii Salicylas (Stront. Salicyl.), Strontium Salicylate,
U.S.P.=--Sr(C{6}H{4}.OH.COO){2} + 2H{2}O.

     White, odorless powder, having a somewhat sweet, saline taste.
     Soluble in water (1:19) and in alcohol (1:61).

  ACTION AND USES: Identical with those of sodium
  salicylate, over which it has no advantage.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.)


=*Strophanthinum (Strophanthin.), Strophanthin, U.S.P.=--A glucoside or
mixture of glucosides obtained from strophanthus.

     White or yellowish powder. Very soluble in water and in diluted
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Like those of digitalis. Strophanthin
  acts more rapidly and is excreted sooner, but its absorption
  from the alimentary canal is so variable that its administration
  by mouth is inadvisable.

  DOSAGE: Daily by mouth, 0.001 Gm. or 1/60 grain (U.S.P.);
  intravenous, 0.00075 Gm. or 1/80 grain (U.S.P.).
  Caution should be used if patient has been taking digitalis


=*Strophanthus (Strophanth.), Strophanthus, U.S.P.=--Ripe seeds.

  ACTION AND USES: Strophanthus and tincture of strophanthus
  have properties similar to those of the glucoside
  strophanthin. The absorption of strophanthus from the
  alimentary canal is so variable that administration by
  mouth is not advisable.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_*Tinctura Strophanthi (Tr. Strophanth.), Tincture of Strophanthus,
U.S.P._ (Strophanthi Tinctura, P.I.).--Strophanthus (10%) with the oil
removed. Biologically assayed by producing death in frogs. Absolute
alcohol content about 92 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.). Physicians
  who prescribe it should specify the biologically assayed
  preparation.


=Strychnina (Strych.), Strychnine, U.S.P.=--An alkaloid obtained from
nux vomica.

     Colorless, odorless crystals or white powder. Extremely bitter in
     very dilute solutions. Very slightly soluble in water (1:6420) and
     slightly soluble in alcohol (1:136).

  ACTION AND USES: Stimulates the reflex activity of the
  spinal cord, but produces little or no effect on the higher
  nervous centers; is also used as a bitter tonic, generally in
  the form of a preparation of nux vomica.

  As strychnine is so slightly soluble, it is generally prescribed as
  one of its salts. Of these, the nitrate meets every need.

  DOSAGE: 0.0015 Gm. or 1/40 grain (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Pepsini, Bismuthi et Strychninae (Elix. Pepsin. Bism. et
Strych.), Elixir of Pepsin, Bismuth and Strychnine, N.F._--Strychnine
(0.0175%), tartaric acid, and elixir of pepsin and bismuth. Absolute
alcohol content about 10 per cent.

  USES: An irrational preparation.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Pilulae Antidyspepticae (Pil. Antidyspep.), Antidyspeptic Pills,
N.F._--Each pill contains strychnine (0.0016 Gm., or 1/40 grain), ipecac
and pilular extract of belladonna leaves (each 0.0065 Gm., or 1/10
grain), mass of mercury, and compound extract of colocynth (each 0.13
Gm., or 2 grains).

  USES: An objectionably named and misdirected mixture.

  DOSAGE: 1 pill (N.F.).


=Strychninae Acetas, Strychnine Acetate.=

_Liquor Strychninae Acetatis (Liq. Strych. Acet.), Solution of
Strychnine Acetate, N.F._ (Hall's Solution of Strychnine).--Strychnine
acetate (about 0.209%), alcohol, compound tincture of cardamom and
water. Absolute alcohol content about 23 per cent.

  USES: Superfluous strychnine solution.

  DOSAGE: 0.6 Cc. or 10 minims (U.S.P.).


=Strychninae Glycerophosphas (Strych. Glycerophos.), Strychnine
Glycerophosphate, N.F.= (Strychnine Glycerinophosphate).

     White, odorless crystals or powder, with a taste at first sweet,
     afterward intensely bitter. Slightly soluble in water (1:350), and
     in alcohol (1:310).


  ACTION AND USES: Superfluous strychnine salt.

  DOSAGE: 0.0015 Gm. or 1/40 grain (N.F.).


=*Strychninae Nitras (Strych. Nit.), Strychnine Nitrate, U.S.P.=

     Colorless, odorless crystals or white powder. Soluble in water
     (1:42) and somewhat less soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of strychnine.

  DOSAGE: 0.0015 Gm. or 1/40 grain (U.S.P.).


=*Strychninae Sulphas (Strych. Sulph.), Strychnine Sulphate, U.S.P.=

     Colorless or white crystals or white powder, odorless; efflorescent
     in dry air. Soluble in water (1:32) and in alcohol (1:81).

  USES: Same as those of strychnine. Has no advantage
  over the nitrate.

  DOSAGE: 0.0015 Gm. or 1/40 grain (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri, Bismuthi et Strychninae (Elix.
Cinchon. Ferr. Bism. et Strych.), Elixir of Cinchona Alkaloids, Iron,
Bismuth and Strychnine, N.F._ (Elixir Cinchonae, Ferri, Bismuthi et
Strychninae, N.F. III, Elixir of Calisaya, Alkaloidal, with Iron,
Bismuth and Strychnine).--Strychnine sulphate (0.0175%), elixir of
cinchona alkaloids, iron and bismuth (about 99%) and water. Absolute
alcohol content about 18 per cent.

  USES: An irrational mixture supposed to contain six
  active ingredients.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Elixir Cinchonae Alkaloidorum, Ferri et Strychninae (Elix. Cinchon.
Ferr. et Strych.), Elixir of Cinchona Alkaloids, Iron and Strychnine,
N.F._ (Elixir Cinchonae, Ferri et Strychninae, N.F. III, Elixir of
Calisaya Alkaloidal, with Iron and Strychnine).--Strychnine sulphate
(0.0175%), elixir of cinchona alkaloids and iron (about 99%) and water.
Absolute alcohol content about 18 per cent.

  USES: A complex and irrational "tonic."

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Strychninae Valeras (Strych. Valer.), Strychnine Valerate, N.F.=

     White, crystalline powder, with a valerian-like odor and an
     intensely bitter taste. Sparingly soluble in water, soluble in
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Superfluous strychnine salt.

  DOSAGE: 0.0015 Gm. or 1/40 grain (N.F.).

_Elixir Strychninae Valeratis (Elix. Strych. Valer.), Elixir of
Strychnine Valerate, N.F._ (Elixir Strychninae Valerianatis, N.F.
III).--Strychnine valerate (0.0175%), aromatic elixir (about 96.5%),
water, tincture of vanilla and compound tincture of cudbear. Absolute
alcohol content about 22 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Styrax (Styrax), Storax, U.S.P.= (Liquid Storax.)--A balsam.

  ACTION AND USES: Closely resembles balsam of Peru,
  over which it has no advantage. An ointment (1:4) has
  been used as a parasiticide in scabies and other parasitic
  infections.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).


=Succus Citri (Suc. Cit.), Lime Juice, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Used especially in prevention and
  treatment of scurvy.


=Succus Pomorum (Suc. Pomor.), Fresh Apple Juice, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Used in pharmacy in the making of
  crude ferric malate.


=*Sulphonethylmethanum (Sulphonethylmeth.), Sulphonethylmethane, U.S.P.=
(Trional).--Diethylsulphonemethylethylmethane.

     Colorless, lustrous, odorless, crystalline scales, having a bitter
     taste in aqueous solutions. Slightly soluble in water (1:200) and
     in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: A hypnotic producing in ordinary doses
  no other symptoms than sleep. The sleep comes on in about
  an hour, though in some cases it may be much longer
  delayed.

  DOSAGE: 0.75 Gm. or 12 grains (U.S.P.), best administered
  in hot milk or other hot drinks.


=*Sulphonmethanum (Sulphonmeth.), Sulphonmethane, U.S.P.=
(Sulphonal).--Diethylsulphonedimethylmethane.

     Colorless, odorless and nearly tasteless crystals or powder.
     Slightly soluble in water (1:365) and soluble in alcohol (1:60).

  ACTION AND USES: Hypnotic and sedative. Has properties
  similar to those of sulphonethylmethane, but usually acts
  somewhat more slowly.

  DOSAGE: 0.75 Gm. or 12 grains (U.S.P.). Preferably
  administered in hot milk or other hot drinks.


=*Sulphur Lotum (Sulphur Lot.), Washed Sulphur, U.S.P.=--S.

     Fine, yellow, odorless, tasteless powder. Insoluble in water and in
     alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Used locally in parasitic diseases of
  the skin and as a mild cathartic especially in hemorrhoids.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.).

_Trochisci Sulphuris et Potassii Bitartratis (Troch. Sulphur. et Pot.
Bitart.), Troches of Sulphur and Potassium Bitartrate, N.F._ (Troches of
Sulphur and Cream of Tartar).--Each troche contains washed sulphur (0.3
Gm. or 5 grains) and potassium bitartrate (0.06 Gm. or 1 grain) with
tragacanth, sugar and oil of orange.

  DOSAGE: 1 troche (N.F.). Dose so small as to be practically
  worthless.


=*Sulphur Praecipitatum (Sulphur Praec.), Precipitated Sulphur, U.S.P.=
(Lac Sulphuris, Milk of Sulphur).--S. Made by precipitating a solution
of calcium sulphide with hydrochloric acid.

     Fine, pale yellow, odorless, tasteless powder.

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of washed sulphur;
  more active and irritant.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.).


=*Sulphur Sublimatum (Sulphur Sublim.), Sublimed Sulphur, U.S.P.=
(Flowers of Sulphur).--S.

     Fine, yellow powder having a slight, characteristic odor and a
     faintly acid taste.

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of washed sulphur.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (U.S.P.).

_Petroxolinum Sulphuratum (Petrox. Sulphur.), Sulphurated Petroxolin,
N.F._ (Sulphurated Petrox).--Sublimed sulphur (3%) in linseed oil, oleic
acid and liquid petroxolin.

_Petroxolinum Sulphuratum Compositum (Petrox. Sulphur. Co.), Compound
Sulphurated Petroxolin, N.F._ (Compound Sulphurated
Petrox).--Sulphurated petroxolin (10%), in oil of cade, thymol,
eucalyptol, oil of turpentine and liquid petroxolin.

_*Unguentum Sulphuris (Ung. Sulphur.), Sulphur Ointment,
U.S.P._--Sublimed sulphur (15%) in benzoinated lard.

_Unguentum Sulphuris Alkalinum (Ung. Sulphur. Alk.), Alkaline Sulphur
Ointment, N.F._--Sublimed sulphur (20%) and potassium carbonate (10%) in
water and benzoinated lard.

_Unguentum Sulphuris Compositum (Ung. Sulphur. Co.), Compound Sulphur
Ointment, N.F._ (Wilkinson's Ointment, Hebra's Itch Ointment).--Sublimed
sulphur (15%), oil of cade (15%) and precipitated calcium carbonate in
soft soap and lard.


=Sulphuris Iodidum (Sulphur. Iod.), Sulphur Iodide, N.F.=--Washed
sulphur (20%) and iodine combined by means of heat.

     Brittle, grayish black masses, having a metallic luster, an odor of
     iodine and a somewhat acrid taste. Almost insoluble in water;
     alcohol dissolves the iodine, leaving the sulphur.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in parasitic skin diseases;
  antiquated.


=Sumbul (Sumbul), Sumbul, U.S.P.= (Musk-root).--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly exploited as a stimulant and
  antispasmodic in hysterical conditions. Effect probably
  psychic.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Extractum Sumbul (Ext. Sumbul), Extract of Sumbul, U.S.P._--A pilular
extract.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Sumbul (Fldext. Sumbul), Fluidextract of Sumbul, U.S.P._
(Fluidextract of Musk-root).--Sumbul (100%). Absolute alcohol content
about 70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Sumbul (Tr. Sumbul), Tincture of Sumbul, N.F._--Sumbul (10%)
in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=SUPPOSITORIA, SUPPOSITORIES, U.S.P.=--Suppositories are solid bodies of
various weights and shapes adapted for introduction into the different
orifices of the human body and melting readily at body heat.


=Suprarenalum Siccum (Supraren. Sicc.), Dried Suprarenals, U.S.P.=
(Glandulae Suprarenales Siccae, U.S.P., VIII, Desiccated Suprarenal
Glands).--The suprarenal glands of animals which are used for food by
man, cleaned, dried, freed from fat, and powdered, and containing
epinephrine (about 0.5%), the active principle of the suprarenal gland.

     A light, yellowish-brown powder, having a slight, characteristic
     odor. Partially soluble in water.


  ACTION AND USES: The action of dried suprarenals is virtually
  that of epinephrine, but more variable and less conveniently
  employed.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).


=SYRUPI, SYRUPS.=--Syrups are aqueous solutions of medicinal substances
rendered palatable by the addition of sugar. For the official syrups see
under the names of the principal ingredients. For Syrupus, see under
=Saccharum=; for Syrupus Bromidorum, under =Potassii Bromidum=; for
Syrupus Ficorum Compositus, under =Ficus=; for Syrupus Hypophosphitum
and Syrupus Hypophosphitum Compositus, under =Calcii Hypophosphis=; for
Syrupus Ipecacuanhae et Opii, under =Opium=; for Syrupus Phosphatum
Compositus, under =Acidum Phosphoricum=; for Syrupus Phosphatum cum
Quinina et Strychnina, under =Quininae Hydrochloridum=, and for Syrupus
Pini Strobi Compositus cum Morphina, under =Morphinae Sulphas=.


=Talcum Purificatum (Talc. Purif.), Purified Talc, U.S.P.=--A purified
native hydrous magnesium silicate, sometimes containing a small amount
of aluminum silicate.

     A fine white or nearly white, odorless, tasteless powder, which
     adheres to the skin and is slippery to the touch.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a dusting powder, and as a
  clarifying agent in pharmacy.


=Tamarindus (Tamarind.), Tamarind, N.F.=--The preserved pulp of the
fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Mildly laxative. When infused with
  water, yields an agreeable acid drink.

  DOSAGE: 15 Gm. or 4 drachms (N.F.).


=Taraxacum (Tarax.), Taraxacum, U.S.P.= (Dandelion).--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Has been used as a bitter tonic (without
  advantage over gentian) and as a mild laxative in habitual
  constipation (inferior to drugs like cascara sagrada);
  has no specific action on the liver.

  DOSAGE: 10 Gm. or 2-1/2 drachms (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Taraxaci Compositum (Elix. Tarax. Co.), Compound Elixir of
Taraxacum, N.F._--Fluidextract of taraxacum (3.5%), fluidextract of wild
cherry (2%), fluidextract of glycyrrhiza, tincture of sweet orange peel,
tincture of cinnamon, compound tincture of cardamom and aromatic elixir.
Absolute alcohol content, about 28 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 8 Cc. or 2 fluidrachms (N.F.).

_Extractum Taraxaci (Ext. Tarax.), Extract of Taraxacum, U.S.P._--A
pilular extract.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Taraxaci (Fldext. Tarax.), Fluidextract of Taraxacum,
U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Dandelion).--Taraxacum (100%). Absolute alcohol
content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).


=Terebenum (Tereben.), Terebene, U.S.P.=--Obtained from oil of
turpentine by the action of concentrated sulphuric acid.

     A colorless, thin liquid, having a thyme-like odor and an aromatic
     taste. Only slightly soluble in water; soluble in alcohol (1:3).

  ACTION AND USES: Expectorant resembling oil of turpentine,
  but more pleasant in odor.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Cc. or 4 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Terebinthina (Terebinth.), Turpentine, N.F.=--A solid oleoresin
obtained from pine.

  ACTION AND USES: Rubefacient; without advantage over
  turpentine oil.


=Terebinthina Laricis (Terebinth. Laric.), Venice Turpentine, N.F.=
(Larch Turpentine).--A viscid oleoresin obtained from European larch.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to those of turpentine; now
  seldom used.

_Petroxolinum Terebinthinae Laricis (Petrox. Terebinth. Laric.), Venice
Turpentine Petroxolin, N.F._ (Venice Turpentine Petrox).--Venice
turpentine (20%) in liquid petroxolin.


=*Terpini Hydras (Terpin. Hyd.), Terpin Hydrate, U.S.P.=

     Colorless, lustrous, nearly odorless crystals, having a slightly
     aromatic and somewhat bitter taste. Slightly soluble in water
     (1:200) and soluble in alcohol (1:13).

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic, diaphoretic, diuretic; largely
  used as an expectorant in cases accompanied by free bronchial
  secretion.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Terpini Hydratis (Elix. Terpin. Hyd.), Elixir of Terpin Hydrate,
N.F._--Terpin hydrate (1.75%), tincture of sweet orange peel, spirit of
bitter almond, alcohol, glycerin, syrup and water. Absolute alcohol
content about 42 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Elixir Terpini Hydratis et Codeinae, N.F._--See under =Codeina=.

_Elixir Terpini Hydratis et Diacetylmorphinae, N.F._--See under
=Diacetylmorphina=.


=Terra Silicea Purificata (Ter. Sil. Purif.), Purified Siliceous Earth,
U.S.P.= (Purified Kieselguhr, Purified Infusorial Earth).--Silica
(SiO{2}).

     Fine, bulky, white or nearly white, odorless, tasteless powder.
     Insoluble in water, acids or dilute solutions of the alkalies.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as a clarifying agent in
  pharmacy.


=*Theobrominae Sodio-Salicylas (Theobrom. Sodio-Sal.), Theobromine
Sodio-Salicylate, U.S.P.= (Diuretin).--Sodium theobromine and sodium
salicylate in approximately molecular proportions. Contains not less
than 46.5 per cent. of theobromine.

     White, odorless powder, having a sweetish, saline and somewhat
     alkaline taste. Freely soluble in water (1:1), slightly soluble in
     alcohol. Incompatible with acids and has the other
     incompatibilities of salicylates.

  ACTION AND USES: A soluble salt of theobromine, having
  much the same action as caffeine, except that it does not
  affect the central nervous system to any extent. Mainly
  used as a diuretic.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).


=*Theophyllina (Theophyll.), Theophylline, U.S.P.= (Dimethylxanthine,
Theocin).--An isomer of theobromine.

     White, odorless powder, having a bitter taste. Soluble in water
     (1:100) and in alcohol (1:80).

  ACTION AND USES: Has a diuretic action similar to that
  of theobromine, more powerful, but said to be not so lasting.

  DOSAGE: 0.25 Gm. or 4 grains (U.S.P.).


=Thuja (Thuja), Thuja, N.F.= (Arbor Vitae).--Young twigs.

  ACTION AND USES: Somewhat irritant; no well-defined
  indications for its use, but has been recommended as a febrifuge,
  expectorant and anthelmintic, and as a stimulating
  remedy in tenesmus and dribbling of urine in the aged.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Thujae (Fldext. Thuj.), Fluidextract of Thuja,
N.F._--Thuja (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=*Thymol (Thymol), Thymol, U.S.P.=--A phenol.

     Large, colorless, translucent crystals, having an aromatic
     thyme-like odor, and a pungent, aromatic taste. Very slightly
     soluble in water (1:1,010); freely soluble in alcohol (1:1).

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic and anthelmintic. Used
  chiefly against the hookworm.

  DOSAGE: Antiseptic, 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (U.S.P.); anthelmintic, 1
  Gm. or 15 grains, per day (U.S.P.). In the treatment of hookworm
  disease it should be given in as finely divided state as possible in
  dosage of from 0.5 to 4 Gm. or from 8 grains to 1 drachm. No fats,
  oils or alcohol should be given at the same time, for fear of
  absorption of the drug.

  The dosage may be regulated according to age as follows: Up to 5 years
  of age, 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains; up to 10, 1 Gm. or 15 grains; up to 15,
  1.5 Gm. or 24 grains; up to 20, 2 Gm. or 30 grains; above 20, 3 to 4
  Gm. or 45 grains to 1 drachm.

_Nebula Thymolis (Nebul. Thymol.), Thymol Spray, N.F._--Thymol (1%) in
light liquid petrolatum.


=*Thymolis Iodidum (Thymol. Iod.), Thymol Iodide, U.S.P.=
(Aristol).--Chiefly dithymol-diiodide. Should contain not less than 43
per cent. of iodine.

     A reddish-brown or reddish-yellow, bulky powder, with a very slight
     aromatic odor. Insoluble in water or glycerin; only slightly
     soluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic; used chiefly as a dusting
  powder. Less efficient than iodoform.


=Thymus (Thymus), Thyme, N.F.=--Tops.

  ACTION AND USES: Aromatic and rubefacient; without
  advantage over camphor.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Thymi (Fldext. Thym.), Fluidextract of Thyme,
N.F._--Thyme (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 20 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=*Thyroideum Siccum (Thyroid. Sicc.), Dried Thyroids, U.S.P.= (Glandulae
Thyroideae Siccae, U.S.P., VIII, Desiccated Thyroid Glands).--The
thyroid glands of animals which are used for food by man, freed from
connective tissue and fat, dried and powdered. Should contain about 0.2
per cent. of iodine.

     A yellowish powder, with a slight characteristic odor.

  ACTION AND USES: Used in thyroid deficiency; sometimes
  in obesity, in which it may be harmful.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Gm. or 1-1/2 grains (U.S.P.).


=TINCTURAE, TINCTURES.=--Tinctures with few exceptions are alcoholic or
hydroalcoholic extractive preparations of vegetable drugs. The tinctures
of potent drugs represent uniformly 10 Gm. of drug in 100 Cc. of the
preparation, while tinctures of less potent drugs vary in strength but
represent usually 20 Gm. of drug in 100 Cc. of the preparation. For the
official tinctures see under the names of the respective drugs. For
Tinctura Amara, see under =Gentiana=; for Tinctura Antiperiodica and
Tinctura Antiperiodica sine Aloe, under =Quininae Bisulphas=; for
Tinctura Aromatica, under =Cinnamomum Saigonicum=; for Tinctura
Ipecacuanhae et Opii and for Tinctura Pectoralis, under =Opium=.


=TINCTURAE AETHEREAE, ETHEREAL TINCTURES, N.F.=--When not otherwise
directed, ethereal tinctures are to be prepared representing 10 per
cent. drug strength, extracted with a mixture of alcohol and ether. Of
doubtful advantage over ordinary tinctures.


=TINCTURAE MEDICAMENTORUM RECENTIUM, TINCTURES OF FRESH DRUGS, N.F.=
(Tincturae Herbarum Recentium, U.S.P. VIII).--When not otherwise
directed, tinctures of fresh drugs are to be prepared by extracting 50
Gm. of the fresh drug with alcohol to make 100 Cc.


=TOXITABELLAE, POISON TABLETS.=--Tablets containing poisons.


=*Tragacantha (Trag.), Tragacanth, U.S.P.= (Gum Tragacanth).--Mixed with
50 parts of distilled water, forms a smooth, nearly uniform, stiff,
opalescent mucilage.

  ACTION AND USES: Demulcent and ingredient in emulsions.

_Glyceritum Tragacanthae (Glycer. Trag.), Glycerite of Tragacanth,
N.F._--Tragacanth (about 10%) in glycerin and water.

_Mucilago Tragacanthae (Mucil. Trag.), Mucilage of Tragacanth,
U.S.P._--Tragacanth (6%) in glycerin (18%) and water.


=Trifolium (Trifol.), Trifolium, N.F.= (Red Clover Blossoms).

  ACTION AND USES: Inert. Has been used in antisyphilitic
  and alterative compounds; also as an expectorant.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Trifolii (Fldext. Trifol.), Fluidextract of Trifolium,
N.F._--Trifolium (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Trillium (Trill.), Trillium, N.F.= (Beth Root).--Rhizome.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete, formerly used as astringent
  and tonic.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Trillii (Fldext. Trill.), Fluidextract of Trillium,
N.F._--Trillium (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).


=*Trinitrophenol (Trinitrophen.), Trinitrophenol, U.S.P.= (Picric Acid).

     Pale yellow, odorless crystals, having an intensely bitter taste,
     and exploding when heated rapidly and when subjected to percussion.
     Trinitrophenol stains the skin an intense, permanent yellow.
     Soluble in water (1:78), and in alcohol (1:12).

  ACTION AND USES: For the dressing of burns. Internally
  is highly toxic, producing nausea, vomiting and diarrhea,
  and stains the skin and mucous membranes a yellow color,
  simulating jaundice.

  DOSAGE: Externally as saturated watery solution or as
  ointment.


=Triticum (Tritic.), Triticum, U.S.P.= (Couch Grass, Dog
Grass).--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly exploited as a diuretic in
  cystitis and irritable bladder. Now seldom employed.

  DOSAGE: 8 Gm. or 2 drachms (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Tritici (Fldext. Tritic.), Fluidextract of Triticum,
U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Couch Grass).--Triticum (100%). Absolute
alcohol content about 15 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 10 Cc. or 2-1/2 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).


=TRITURATIONES, TRITURATIONS.=--Mixtures containing active drugs in
powder form; prepared by mixing the substance (10%) with powdered sugar
of milk. For the official trituration see Trituratio Elaterini, U.S.P.,
under =Elaterinum=.


=TROCHISCI, TROCHES= (Lozenges).--Tablets intended to be dissolved in
the mouth for their local effect on the mucous membrane of the mouth and
the throat. For the official troches see under the names of the
principal ingredients.


=Ulmus (Ulmus), Elm, U.S.P.= (Elm Bark, Slippery Elm).--The inner bark.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete demulcent.

_Trochisci Ulmi (Troch. Ulmi), Troches of Elm, N.F._--Each troche
contains elm, tragacanth, sugar and methyl salicylate.

  USES: Demulcent expectorant.

  DOSAGE: 1 troche (N.F.).


=UNGUENTA, OINTMENTS.=--Soft, fatty solids, of such consistency that
they are readily spread at ordinary temperatures. For the official
ointments, see under the names of the respective principal constituents.
For Unguentum, see under =Adeps=; for Unguentum Diachylon, under =Plumbi
Oxidum=, and for Unguentum Fuscum, under =Camphora=.


=Uranii Nitras (Uran. Nit.), Uranium Nitrate, U.S.P.= (Uranyl
Nitrate).--UO{2}(NO{3}){2} + 6H{2}O.

     Light, yellow, odorless, somewhat efflorescent, radioactive
     crystals, having a bitter astringent taste. Freely soluble in water
     (1:1.2); also soluble in alcohol or ether.

  ACTION AND USES: Has been used, without adequate justification,
  in the treatment of diabetes and cancer. Solutions
  are poisonous and produce glucosuria when injected subcutaneously,
  even in small doses.

  DOSAGE: 0.01 Gm. or 1/6 grain (U.S.P.), best administered
  in simple solutions. Use with caution.


=Uva Ursi (Uva Ursi), Uva Ursi, U.S.P.= (Bearberry).--Leaves.

  ACTION AND USES: Mild and slightly antiseptic diuretic
  used especially in vesical catarrh. Less effective than santal
  oil.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Uvae Ursi (Fldext. Uvae Ursi), Fluidextract of Uva Ursi,
U.S.P._--Uva ursi (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 25 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=*Valeriana (Valer.), Valerian, U.S.P.=--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Used as "antispasmodic" and "nerve
  sedative" in hysteria and other nervous excitations. Its
  influence is largely psychic, owing to its strong, persistent
  odor.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Valerianae (Fldext. Valer.), Fluidextract of Valerian,
N.F._--Valerian (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 70 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Tinctura Valerianae (Tr. Valer.), Tincture of Valerian,
U.S.P._--Valerian (20%), in alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content
about 69 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (U.S.P.).

_*Tinctura Valerianae Ammoniata (Tr. Valer. Ammon.), Ammoniated Tincture
of Valerian, U.S.P._--Valerian (20%) in aromatic spirit of ammonia.
Absolute alcohol content about 64 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=Vanilla (Vanilla), Vanilla, N.F.= (Vanilla Bean).--Cured fruit.

  ACTION AND USES: Flavoring.

_Tinctura Vanillae (Tr. Vanill.), Tincture of Vanilla, N.F._--Vanilla,
sugar and diluted alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.


=Vanillinum (Vanillin.), Vanillin, U.S.P.=--The odorous principle of
vanilla, sometimes prepared synthetically.

     Fine, white or nearly white, crystalline needles having the odor
     and taste of vanilla. Soluble in water (1:100) and freely soluble
     in alcohol or glycerin.

  ACTION AND USES: Used only as a flavoring.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Vanillini Compositum (Elix. Vanil. Co.), Compound Elixir of
Vanillin, N.F._--Compound spirit of vanillin (2%), alcohol, glycerin,
syrup, tincture of caramel and water. Absolute alcohol content about 8
per cent.

_Spiritus Vanillini Compositus (Sp. Vanil. Co.), Compound Spirit of
Vanillin, N.F._--Vanillin, oil of orange, oil of cardamom, oil of
cinnamon and alcohol. Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.


=Veratrina (Veratrin.), Veratrine, U.S.P.= (Veratria).--A mixture of
alkaloids from sabadilla seeds.

     White or nearly white, odorless powder, intensely irritating to the
     nasal mucous membrane. Very slightly soluble in water (1:1760) and
     freely soluble in alcohol (1:2.8).

  ACTION AND USES: In its action on peripheral nerve endings,
  it is said to resemble aconite, but has no material
  advantage over the latter. Has been applied (in an ointment)
  as analgesic in neuralgia. It is highly toxic, and
  caution should be observed in its use, especially where the
  skin is broken.

_Oleatum Veratrinae (Oleat. Veratrin.), Oleate of Veratrine,
N.F._--Veratrine (2%) in oleic acid and olive oil.

_Unguentum Veratrinae (Ung. Veratrin.), Veratrine Ointment,
N.F._--Veratrine (4%) in expressed oil of almond and benzoinated lard.


=Veratrum Viride (Verat. Vir.), Veratrum Viride, U.S.P.= (Green
Hellebore, American Hellebore).--Rhizome and roots.

  ACTION AND USES: Slows the heart and lowers blood pressure.
  The tincture has been recommended especially in
  eclampsia, but is now little used.

  DOSAGE: 0.06 Gm. or 1 grain (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Veratri Viridis (Fldext. Verat. Vir.), Fluidextract of
Veratrum Viride, U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Green Hellebore).--Veratrum
viride (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.1 Cc. or 1-1/2 minims (U.S.P.).

_Tinctura Veratri Viridis (Tr. Verat. Vir.), Tincture of Veratrum
Viride, U.S.P._--Veratrum viride (10%). Absolute alcohol content about
91 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Cc. or 8 minims (U.S.P.)


=Verbasci Flores (Verbasc. Flor.), Mullein Flowers, N.F.=--Corollas with
stamens.

  ACTION AND USES: Demulcent, without advantage over
  acacia, elm, etc.

  DOSAGE: 8 Gm. or 2 drachms (N.F.).


=Verbasci Folia (Verbasc. Fol.), Mullein Leaves, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Same as those of the flowers.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Verbasci Foliae_ [should be _Foliorum_] _(Fldext.
Verbasc. Fol.), Fluidextract of Mullein Leaves, N.F._--Mullein leaves
(100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Verbena (Verben.), Verbena, N.F.= (Blue Vervain).--Plant deprived of
its root.

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete; said to be tonic, emetic,
  expectorant and diaphoretic.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Verbenae (Fldext. Verben.), Fluidextract of Verbena,
N.F._--Verbena (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (N.F.).


=Viburnum Opulus (Viburn. Opul.), Viburnum Opulus, N.F.= (Crampbark,
High Bush Cranberry Bark).

  ACTION AND USES: Slightly bitter; practically inert; was
  recommended as tonic, antispasmodic and alterative. The
  market supply is said to have been spurious for many years,
  consisting of mountain maple (_Acer spicatum_).

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (N.F.).

_Elixir Viburni Opuli Compositum (Elix. Viburn. Opul. Co.), Compound
Elixir of Viburnum Opulus, N.F._ (Compound Elixir of
Crampbark).--Fluidextract of viburnum opulus (7.5%), fluidextract of
trillium (15%), fluidextract of aletris (7.5%) and compound elixir of
taraxacum. Absolute alcohol content about 35 per cent.

  USES: An inefficient mixture sold for use in "female
  weakness."

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Viburni Opuli (Fldext. Viburn. Opul.), Fluidextract of
Viburnum Opulus, N.F._--Viburnum opulus (100%). Absolute alcohol content
about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (N.F.).

_Tinctura Viburni Opuli Composita (Tr. Viburn. Opul. Co.), Compound
Tincture of Viburnum, N.F._--Viburnum opulus (3.5%), dioscorea (3.5%)
and scutellaria (1%), with clove and Saigon cinnamon in glycerin,
alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  USES: Irrational mixture used in menstrual disorders.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Viburnum Prunifolium (Viburn. Prun.), Viburnum Prunifolium, U.S.P.=
(Black Haw, Viburnum).--The dried bark.

  ACTION AND USES: Has had considerable vogue as a
  "uterine sedative," in dysmenorrhea and habitual abortion.
  There is no good evidence that it has any action.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Viburni Prunifolii (Elix. Viburn. Prun.), Elixir of Viburnum
Prunifolium, N.F._ (Elixir of Black Haw).--Fluidextract of viburnum
prunifolium (12.5%), compound tincture of cardamom and aromatic elixir.
Absolute alcohol content about 29 per cent.

  USES: An objectionable alcoholic preparation of viburnum.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).

_Extractum Viburni Prunifolii (Ext. Viburn. Prun.), Extract of Viburnum
Prunifolium, U.S.P._ (Powdered Extract of Viburnum Prunifolium).--One
Gm. extract represents 5 Gm. viburnum prunifolium.

  DOSAGE: 0.5 Gm. or 8 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Viburni Prunifolii (Fldext. Viburn. Prun.), Fluidextract
of Viburnum Prunifolium, U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Black Haw).--Viburnum
prunifolium (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 55 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=VINA, WINES.=--Medicated wines are solutions of active medicaments or
the active constituents of drugs in wine. For the official wines, see
under the names of the respective principal constituents.


=Vinum Xericum (Vin. Xeric.), Sherry Wine, N.F.=--An alcoholic liquid
made by fermenting the juice of fresh ripe grapes, the fruit of
cultivated varieties of Vitis, freed from seeds, stems and skins, and
fortifying with pure grape brandy. Absolute alcohol content about 20 per
cent.

  ACTION AND USES: Sherry wine has the action of alcohol.


=*Virus Vaccinicum (Virus Vaccin.), Vaccine Virus, U.S.P.= (Glycerinated
Vaccine Virus, Smallpox Vaccine, Jennerian Vaccine).--Prepared from the
pustules of vaccinia from vaccinated cattle. The product must comply
with the requirements established by the Secretary of the Treasury of
the United States through the United States Public Health Service.

  USES: Prophylactic vaccination against smallpox.


=Xanthoxylum (Xanthox.), Xanthoxylum, U.S.P.= (Prickly Ash Bark).

  ACTION AND USES: Bitter, without special advantage over
  gentian.

  DOSAGE: 2 Gm. or 30 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Xanthoxyli (Fldext. Xanthox.), Fluidextract of
Xanthoxylum, U.S.P._ (Fluidextract of Prickly Ash).--Xanthoxylum (100%).
Absolute alcohol content about 60 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).


=Xanthoxylum Fructus (Xanthox. Fruct.), Prickly Ash Berries, N.F.=

  ACTION AND USES: Obsolete and probably worthless; has
  been used as stimulant, tonic, alterative, diaphoretic, sialagogue
  and carminative.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).


=Zea (Zea), Zea, N.F.= (Corn Silk).

  ACTION AND USES: Probably valueless. Has been used in
  inflammatory conditions of the bladder.

  DOSAGE: 4 Gm. or 1 drachm (N.F.).

_Fluidextractum Zeae (Fldext. Zea.), Fluidextract of Zea, N.F._--Zea
(100%). Absolute alcohol content about 40 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Zedoaria (Zedoar.), Zedoary, N.F.=--Rhizome.

  ACTION AND USES: Practically the same as those of ginger,
  over which it has no advantage.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (N.F.).

_Tinctura Zedoariae Amara (Tr. Zedoar. Amar.), Bitter Tincture of
Zedoary, N.F. (Compound Tincture of Zedoary)._--Zedoary (25%), aloes
(12.5%), rhubarb (6.2%), gentian (6.2%), agaric (6.2%) and saffron
(6.2%) in glycerin, alcohol and water. Absolute alcohol content about 50
per cent.

  USES: Bitter stomachic and laxative; needlessly complex
  and without special advantage over compound tincture of
  gentian.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=*Zinci Acetas (Zinc. Acet.), Zinc Acetate,
U.S.P.=--Zn(C{2}H{3}O{2}){2} + 2H{2}O.

     Soft white crystals, having a faint vinegar odor and, in dilute
     solutions, an astringent metallic taste. Freely soluble in water
     (1:2.3), and soluble in alcohol (1:30).

  ACTION AND USES: Used locally, like zinc sulphate, being
  somewhat less powerful.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (U.S.P.).


=Zinci Carbonas Praecipitatus (Zinc. Carb. Praec.), Precipitated Zinc
Carbonate, U.S.P.=

     Impalpable, white, odorless, tasteless powder. Insoluble in water
     or alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to, but without advantage over
  zinc oxide.


=*Zinci Chloridum (Zinc Chlor.), Zinc Chloride, U.S.P.=--ZnCl{2}.

     White or nearly white, granular powder, porcelain-like masses or
     molded pencils, odorless, very deliquescent and intensely caustic.
     Very soluble in water (1:0.25) and in alcohol (1:1.3).

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic, astringent and escharotic.

_*Liquor Zinci Chloridi (Liq. Zinc. Chlor.), Solution of Zinc Chloride,
U.S.P._--ZnCl{2} (about 50 per cent.).


=*Zinci Oxidum (Zinc. Oxid.), Zinc Oxide, U.S.P.=--ZnO.

     Fine, white or nearly white, odorless, tasteless powder. Insoluble
     in water or in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Antiseptic and astringent, widely used
  either alone or in combination with other substances as a
  dusting powder and as a protective and sedative in ointments.

_Glycerogelatinum Zinci Durum (Glycerogel. Zinc. Dur.), Firm Zinc
Glycerogelatin, N.F._--Zinc oxide (10%) in water, glycerin and
glycerinated gelatin.

_Glycerogelatinum Zinci Molle (Glycerogel. Zinc. Mol.), Soft Zinc
Glycerogelatin, N.F._--Zinc oxide (10%) in water, glycerin and
glycerinated gelatin.

_Mulla Zinci (Mull. Zinc.), Zinc Mull, N.F._ (Unguentum Zinci Extensum,
N.F. III).--Zinc oxide (10%) in benzoinated suet and benzoinated lard.

_Pasta Zinci (Past. Zinc.), Zinc Paste, N.F._ (Lassar's Zinc
Paste).--Zinc oxide (24%), salicylic acid (2%), starch and petrolatum.

_Pasta Zinci Mollis (Past. Zinc. Moll.), Soft Zinc Paste, N.F._ (Unna's
Soft Zinc Paste).--Zinc oxide (25%), precipitated calcium carbonate,
linseed oil and solution of calcium hydroxide.

_Pasta Zinci Sulphurata (Past. Zinc. Sulphur.), Sulphurated Zinc Paste,
N.F._ (Unna's Sulphurated Zinc Paste).--Zinc oxide (15%), precipitated
sulphur (10%), purified siliceous earth and benzoinated lard.

_*Unguentum Zinci Oxidi (Ung. Zinc. Ox.), Ointment of Zinc Oxide,
U.S.P._ (Zinc Ointment).--Zinc oxide (20%) in benzoinated lard.


=Zinci Phenolsulphonas (Zinc. Phenolsulph.), Zinc Phenolsulphonate,
U.S.P.= (Zinc Sulphocarbolate).--The hydrated salt.

     Colorless, odorless crystals or granules having an astringent,
     metallic taste. Freely soluble in water (1:1.6), and in alcohol
     (1:1.8).

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to, but less active than zinc
  sulphate, over which it has no advantage.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains.


=*Zinci Stearas (Zinc. Stear.), Zinc Stearate, U.S.P.=--Chiefly zinc
stearate and palmitate.

     Fine, bulky, white, tasteless powder, having a faint characteristic
     odor. Insoluble in water or alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Similar to, but without special advantage
  over zinc oxide.

_Unguentum Zinci Stearatis (Ung. Zinc. Stear.), Ointment of Zinc
Stearate, N.F._--Zinc stearate (50%) in white petrolatum.

  USES: Without advantage over the oxide.


=*Zinci Sulphas (Zinc. Sulph.), Zinc Sulphate, U.S.P.=--ZnSO{4} +
7H{2}O.

     Colorless, transparent crystals or granular powder, odorless and
     having an astringent, metallic taste. Very soluble in water (1:0.6)
     and freely soluble in glycerin (1:2.5); insoluble in alcohol.

  ACTION AND USES: Astringent, styptic and emetic. Much
  used in eye washes and especially effective in that form of
  conjunctivitis caused by the Morax-Axenfeld bacillus.

  DOSAGE: Emetic, 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.) in diluted
  solution. Locally, 0.1 to 1 per cent. in collyria; 0.5 to 4
  per cent. in injections (gonorrhea).

_Liquor Zinci et Alumini Compositus (Liq. Zinc. et Alumin. Co.),
Compound Solution of Zinc and Aluminum, N.F._--Zinc sulphate (20%),
aluminum sulphate (20%), betanaphthol (0.06%) with oil of thyme in
water.

  USES: Needlessly complex astringent and antiseptic.

_Liquor Zinci et Ferri Compositus (Liq. Zinc. et Ferr. Co.), Compound
Solution of Zinc and Iron, N.F._ (Deodorant Solution).--Zinc sulphate
(20%), ferrous sulphate (20%), copper sulphate (6.5%), betanaphthol
(0.06%) with oil of thyme and hypophosphorous acid in water.

  USES: Needlessly complex antiseptic mixture.

_Pulvis Antisepticus (Pulv. Antisept.), Soluble Antiseptic Powder, N.F._
(Pulvis Antisepticus Solubilis).--Zinc sulphate (12.5%), salicylic acid
(0.5%), phenol, eucalyptol, menthol and thymol (each 0.1%) and boric
acid.

  USES: Needlessly complex antiseptic mixture.


=Zinci Valeras (Zinc. Valer.), Zinc Valerate, U.S.P.= (Zinc
Valerianate).

     White scales or powder, having a valerian-like odor and a sweetish,
     astringent, metallic taste. Soluble in water (1:70), often leaving
     a residue, and in alcohol (1:22).

  ACTION AND USES: Formerly deemed a "nerve sedative,"
  but is without value.

  DOSAGE: 0.125 Gm. or 2 grains (U.S.P.).

_Elixir Zinci Valeratis (Elix. Zinc. Valer.), Elixir of Zinc Valerate,
N.F._ (Elixir Zinci Valerianatis, N.F. III).--Zinc valerate (1.75%),
ammonium citrate, alcohol, spirit of bitter almond, compound tincture of
cudbear, water and aromatic elixir. Absolute alcohol content about 28
per cent.

  DOSAGE: 4 Cc. or 1 fluidrachm (N.F.).


=Zincum (Zinc.), Zinc, U.S.P.=--Zn.

     Bluish-white, thin sheets, irregular, granulated pieces, molded
     pencils or powder. Insoluble in water or alcohol, but dissolves in
     diluted sulphuric or hydrochloric acid with the evolution of
     hydrogen.

  ACTION AND USES: Reagent for the generation of
  hydrogen.


=*Zingiber (Zingib.), Ginger, U.S.P.=--Rhizomes.

  ACTION AND USES: Flavor, carminative, aromatic and
  stimulant to the gastro-intestinal tract, because of the irritating
  action of the volatile oil and resin. Probably has no
  advantage over other pungent aromatics, such as the mints.

  DOSAGE: 1 Gm. or 15 grains (U.S.P.).

_Fluidextractum Zingiberis (Fldext. Zingib.), Fluidextract of Ginger,
U.S.P._--Ginger (100%). Absolute alcohol content about 80 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 1 Cc. or 15 minims (U.S.P.).

_Oleoresina Zingiberis (Oleores. Zingib.), Oleoresin of Ginger, U.S.P._

  USES: Highly irritant.

  DOSAGE: 0.03 Gm. or 1/2 grain (U.S.P.).

_Syrupus Zingiberis (Syr. Zingib.), Syrup of Ginger, U.S.P._
Fluidextract of ginger (3%), in alcohol (2%) and syrup.

  DOSAGE: 15 Cc. or 4 fluidrachms (U.S.P.).

_*Tinctura Zingiberis (Tr. Zingib.), Tincture of Ginger, U.S.P._
(Tincture of Jamaica Ginger).--Jamaica ginger (20%) in alcohol. Absolute
alcohol content about 91 per cent.

  DOSAGE: 2 Cc. or 30 minims (U.S.P.).




INDEX


In this index preference has been given to the English names of the
various drugs. The Latin names are used only when they differ
materially in spelling from the English.


  Absinthium, 5

  Absorbent cotton (Gossypium purificatum), 103

  Acacia, 5
    and morphine syrup, 134
    mucilage, 5
    syrup, 5

  Aceta, 5

  Acetanilid, 5
    powder, compound, 6

  Acetic acid, 6
    acid, diluted, 6
    acid, glacial, 6
    ether, 17
    turpentine liniment, 148

  Acetomorphine (Diacetylmorphina), 78

  Acetone, 6

  Acetphenetidin, 6

  Acetum aromaticum, 142
    opii, 149
    scillae, 192

  Acid, acetic acid, boric acid, citric acid, etc.: See Acetic acid,
    Boric acid, Citric acid, etc.

  Aconite, 14
    and chloroform liniment, 15
    extract, 15
    fluidextract, 15
    powdered extract (Extractum aconiti), 15
    root, 14
    tincture, 15

  Aconiti tuber (Aconitum), 14

  Aconitine, 14
    oleate, 14

  Actaea, compound syrup (Syrupus cimicifugae compositus), 64

  Adeps, 15
    benzoinatus, 15
    lanae, 15
    lanae hydrosus, 16

  Adhesive plaster (Emplastrum resinae), 182
    rosin (Emplastrum resinae), 182
    rubber (Emplastrum elasticum), 182

  Adjuvans elixir (Elixir glycyrrhizae), 19

  Adonis, 16
    fluidextract, 16

  Aether, 16
    aceticus, 17
    nitrosus, 17

  Aethylis carbamas, 17
    chloridum, 17

  Aethylmorphinae hydrochloridum, 17

  African chillies (Capsicum), 55

  Agar, 18

  Agar-Agar, 18

  Agaric, 18
    larch (Agaricus), 18
    white (Agaricus), 18

  Aitken tonic pills (pilulae ferri, quininae, strychninae et arseni
    mites), 95

  Albuminate of iron, solution, 94

  Alcohol, 18
    absolutum (Alcohol dehydratum), 18
    dehydrated, 18
    diluted, 18

  Aleppo galls (Galla), 98

  Aletris, 19
    fluidextract, 19

  Alexandria senna or India senna (Senna), 194

  Alkaline antiseptic solution, 169
    mixture of rhubarb, 183
    solution of tar, 165
    sulphur ointment, 215

  Allium, 19

  Allspice (Pimenta), 163
    oil (Oleum Pimentae), 146

  Almond, bitter oil, 137
    bitter, spirit (Spiritus Amygdalae amarae), 138
    bitter, water, 137
    elixir, compound, 137
    emulsion, 29
    milk (Emulsum amygdalae), 29
    oil, expressed, 138
    oil, sweet (Oleum amygdalae expressum), 138
    sweet, 28

  Aloes, 19
    and asafetida pills, 20
    and canella powder, 21
    and iron pills, 20
    and mastic pills, 20
    and myrrh pills, 20
    and myrrh tincture, 21
    and podophyllum compound pills, 21
    extract, 20
    iron, quinine and nux vomica pills, 94
    mercury and podophyllum pills, 21
    mercury and scammony compound pills, 21
    pills, 20
    powdered extract (Extractum aloes), 20
    tincture, 21

  Aloin, 21
    compound pills, 22
    strychnine and belladonna, compound pills, 22
    strychnine and belladonna pills, 22

  Alum, 23
    burnt (Alumen exsiccatum), 23
    dried (Alumen exsiccatum), 23
    exsiccated, 23

  Alumen, 23
    ustum (Alumen exsiccatum), 23

  Aluminum acetate, 23
    acetate solution, 23
    acetico-tartrate, 24
    acetico-tartrate solution, 24
    and zinc compound solution, 230
    chloride, 24
    hydroxide, 24
    subacetate, 24
    subacetate solution, 24
    sulphate, 24

  Althaea, 22
    leaves, 23
    syrup, 22

  American hellebore (Veratrum viride), 225
    spikenard (Aralia), 32
    wormseed oil (Oleum chenopodii), 140

  Aminoform (Hexamethylenamina), 107

  Ammonia, 24
    liniment, 25
    solution, anisated (Spiritus ammoniae anisatus), 25
    spirit, anisated, 25
    spirit, aromatic, 26
    water, 24
    water, stronger, 24

  Ammoniated camphor wash, 25
    glycyrrhizin, 103
    mercury, 113
    mercury ointment, 113
    tincture of ergot, 82
    tincture of guaiac, 105
    tincture of valerian, 224

  Ammonio-ferric citrate (Ferri et ammonii citras), 87
    acetate, 25
    acetate and iron solution, 25
    acetate solution, 25
    benzoate, 25
    bromide, 26
    bromide elixir, 26
    carbonate, 26
    chloride, 27
    chloride mixture, 27
    chloride troches, 27
    citrate, 27
    citrate and bismuth, 41
    citrate and iron, 87
    citrate solution, 27
    hypophosphite, 27
    hypophosphite syrup, 27
    iodide, 28
    iodide liniment, 28
    phosphate, 28
    salicylate, 28
    valerate, 28
    valerate elixir, 28
    valerianate (Ammonii valeras), 28

  Amygdala dulcis, 28

  Amyl nitrite, 29

  Amylum, 29

  Anethol, 29

  Angelica fruit, 29
    root, 29
    root, fluidextract, 30
    seed (Angelicae fructus), 29

  Anhydrous lanolin (Adeps lanae), 15

  Anisated powder of rhubarb and magnesia, 184
    solution of ammonia (Spiritus ammoniae anisatus), 25
    spirit of ammonia, 25

  Anise, 30
    elixir, 29
    oil (Oleum anisi), 138
    powder, compound (Pulvis Rhei et magnesiae anisatus), 184
    spirit, 138
    water, 138

  Aniseed (Anisum), 30

  Anisum, 30

  Antidiphtheric globulins (Serum antidiphthericum purificatum), 196
    serum, 196
    serum, dried, 196
    serum, purified, 196

  Antidyspeptic pills, 212

  Antifebrin (Acetanilidum), 5

  Antimonial powder, 30

  Antimonium oxysulphuratum (Antimonium sulphuratum), 30
    sulphuratum, 30

  Antimony and potassium tartrate, 30
    compound pills, 31
    oxide, 30
    sulphurated, 30
    tartrated (Antimonii et potassii tartras), 30
    wine, 30

  Antiperiodic pills, 180
    pills without aloes, 180
    tincture, 177
    tincture without aloes, 178

  Antipyrine, 31

  Antiseptic powder, soluble, 231
    solution, 7
    solution, alkaline, 169
    solution of pepsin, 157

  Antitetanic globulins (Serum antitetanicum purificatum), 196
    serum, 196
    serum, dried, 197
    serum, purified, 196

  Antitoxin, diphtheria (Serum antidiphthericum), 196
    diphtheria, concentrated (Serum antidiphthericum purificatum), 196
    diphtheria, dried (Serum antidiphthericum siccum), 196
    diphtheria, refined and concentrated
      (Serum antidiphthericum purificatum), 196
    globulins, diphtheric (Serum antidiphthericum purificatum), 196
    globulins, tetanus (Serum antitetanicum purificatum), 196
    tetanus (Serum antitetanicum), 196
    tetanus, concentrated (Serum antitetanicum purificatum), 196
    tetanus, dried (Serum antitetanicum siccum), 197
    tetanus, refined and concentrated
      (Serum antitetanicum purificatum), 196

  Ants, spirit of (Spiritus acidi formici), 8

  Apii fructus, 31

  Apiol, liquid (Oleoresina petroselini), 159

  Apocynum, 31
    fluidextract, 31

  Apomorphine chloride (Apomorphinae hydrochloridum), 31
    hydrochloride, 31

  Apple juice, fresh, 214

  Apples, ferrated extract, 90
    ferrated extract, tincture, 90

  Aqua
      See also under Water.
    ammoniae, 24
    ammoniae fortior, 25
    amygdalae amarae, 137
    anisi, 138
    aqua, 32
    aurantii florum, 37
    aurantii florum fortior, 37
    camphorae, 53
    chloroformi, 62
    cinnamomi, 140
    creosoti, 75
    destillata, 32
    destillata sterilisata, 32
    foeniculi, 141
    hamamelidis, 106
    hydrogenii dioxidii (Liquor hydrogenii dioxidi), 115
    menthae piperitae, 143
    menthae viridis, 143
    phagedaenica flava (Lotio flava), 111
    phagedaenica nigra (Lotio nigra), 109
    phenolata, 159
    regia (Acidum nitrohydrochloricum), 10
    rosae, 185
    rosae fortior, 185
    sedativa (Lotio ammoniacalis camphorata), 25

  Aquae aromaticae, 32

  Aqueous elixir of glycyrrhiza, 102
    elixir of licorice (Elixir glycyrrhizae aquosum), 102
    extract of ergot, 82
    fluidextract of cinchona, 65
    tincture of rhubarb, 184

  Aralia, 32
    fluidextract, 32

  Arbor vitae (Thuja), 219

  Argenti nitras, 32
    nitras fusus, 33
    oxidum, 33

  Aristol (Thymolis iodidum), 220

  Arnica, 33
    flowers (Arnica), 33
    fluidextract, 33
    tincture, 33

  Aromatic camphor mixture, 142
    castor oil, 146
    elixir, 18
    elixir of eriodictyon, 83
    elixir of glycyrrhiza, 19
    elixir of licorice (Elixir glycyrrhizae aromaticum), 19
    elixir of yerba santa (Elixir eriodictyi aromaticum), 83
    fluidextract, 66
    fluidextract of cascara sagrada, 58
    fluidglycerate of cascara sagrada, 58
    oil spray, 158
    powder, 66
    powder of chalk, 66
    powder of chalk and opium, 151
    solution of pepsin, 157
    spirit of ammonia, 26
    sulphuric acid, 13
    syrup of eriodictyon, 83
    syrup of rhubarb, 184
    syrup of senna, 195
    syrup of yerba santa (Syrupus eriodictyi aromaticus), 83
    tincture, 66
    tincture of rhubarb, 184
    vinegar, 142
    waters, 32

  Aromatized iodoform, 117

  Aromatol (Nebula aromatica), 158

  Arsenas sodii (Sodii arsenas), 198

  Arseni iodidum, 33
    trioxidum, 33

  Arsenic antidote (Ferri hydroxidum cum magnesii oxido), 88
    bromide and gold solution, 7
    chloride, solution (Liquor acidi arsenosi), 34
    iodide (Arseni iodidum), 33
    iron, quinine and strychnine pills, mild, 95
    iron, quinine and strychnine pills, stronger, 95
    solution, Clemens', 168
    solution, hydrochloric (Liquor acidi arsenosi), 34
    trioxide, 33
    white (Arseni trioxidum), 33

  Arsenous acid (Arseni trioxidum), 33
    acid, solution, 34
    and mercuric iodide solution, 33
    iodide, 33
    oxide (Arseni trioxidum), 33

  Artificial Carlsbad salt, 207
    Carlsbad salt, effervescent, 207
    Kissingen salt, 202
    Kissingen salt, effervescent, 202
    Vichy salt, 199
    Vichy salt, effervescent, 200
    Vichy salt with lithium, effervescent, 200

  Asafetida, 34
    and aloes pills, 20
    emulsion, 34
    gum (Asafoetida), 34
    milk (Emulsum Asafoetidae), 34
    opium and magnesia mixture, 128
    pills, 34
    tincture, 34

  Asarum, 34
    syrup, compound (Syrupus asari compositus), 34

  Asclepias, 35
    fluidextract, 35

  Aspidium, 35
    oleoresin, 35

  Aspidosperma, 35
    fluidextract, 35

  Astringent mixture, 77

  Atophan (Acidum phenylcinchoninicum), 11

  Atropine, 35
    oleate, 36
    sulphate, 36

  Aurantii amari cortex, 36
    dulcis cortex, 36
    flores, 37

  Auri et sodii chloridum, 37


  Baccae spinae cervinae (Rhamnus cathartica), 182

  Baking soda (Sodii bicarbonas), 199

  Balm of Gilead buds (Populi gemmae), 167

  Balsam of copaiba (Copaiba), 73
    of Peru, 37
    of Tolu, 37
    poplar buds, 167

  Balsamum tranquillans (Oleum hyoscyami compositum), 115

  Baptisia, 38
    fluidextract, 38

  Barker's post partum pills (Pilulae laxative post partum), 71

  Basham's mixture (Liquor ferri et ammonii acetatis), 25

  Basilicon ointment (Ceratum resinae), 181

  Bateman's pectoral drops (Tinctura pectoralis), 152

  Bay oil (Oleum myrciae), 145

  Bayberry bark, 135
    powder, compound, 135

  Bearberry (Uva ursi), 223

  Beef, 56
    and wine (Vinum carnis), 56
    and iron, wine, 57
    extract (Extractum carnis), 56
    wine, 56
    wine and iron (Vinum carnis et ferri), 57

  Beeswax (Cera flava), 59

  Belladonna, aloin and strychnine pills, 22
    aloin and strychnine pills, compound, 22
    leaves, 38
    leaves, extract, 38
    leaves, tincture, 38
    liniment, 39
    ointment, 38
    plaster, 38
    root, 39
    root, fluidextract, 39
    tincture (Tinctura belladonnae foliorum), 38

  Benne oil (Oleum sesami), 147

  Benzaldehyde, 39

  Benzamine hydrochloride (Betaeucainae hydrochloridum), 40

  Benzinum purificatum, 39

  Benzoic acid, 7

  Benzoin, 39
    tincture, 39
    tincture, compound, 39

  Benzoinated lard, 15
    suet, 197

  Benzosulphinide, 40

  Berberis, 40
    fluidextract, 40

  Bergamot, oil, 139

  Bestuscheff's tincture (Tinctura ferri chloridi aetherea), 87

  Betaeucaine hydrochloride, 40

  Betanaphythol, 40
    paste, 40
    petrox (Petroxolinum betanaphtholis), 41
    petroxolin, 41

  Beth root (Trillium), 222

  Bichloride of mercury (Hydrargyri chloridum corrosivum), 108
    tablets (Toxitabellae hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi), 109

  Biniodide of mercury (Hydrargyri iodidum rubrum), 110

  Birch, rectified empyroligneous oil
      (Oleum betulae empyreumaticum rectificatum), 139
    tar oil, rectified, 139

  Bismuth ammoniocitrate (Bismuth et ammonii citras), 41
    and ammonium citrate, 41
    and pepsin, elixir, 156
    and sodium tartrate, 41
    betanaphthol, 41
    betanaphtholate (Bismuthi betanaphtholas), 41
    elixir, 41
    glycerite, 41
    iron and calisaya, alkaloidal elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et bismuthi), 41
    iron and cinchona alkaloids, elixir, 41
    magma, 42
    milk (Magma bismuthi), 42
    oxide, 42
    solution, 42
    strychnine, and pepsin, elixir, 212
    strychnine, calisaya, alkaloidal, and iron, elixir, 213
    strychnine, cinchona alkaloids, and iron, elixir, 213
    subcarbonate, 42
    subgallate, 42
    subnitrate, 42
    subsalicylate, 42

  Bitter almond oil, 137
    almond spirit, 138
    almond water, 137
    apple (Colocynthis), 70
    metallic pills
      (Pilulae ferri, quininae, strychninae et arseni fortiores), 95
    orange elixir, 138
    orange flowers, 37
    orange oil, 138
    orange peel, 36
    orange peel, fluidextract, 36
    orange peel, tincture, 36
    stomachic drops (Tinctura amara), 100
    tincture, 100
    tincture of zedoary, 228
    wine of iron, 88
    wood (Quassia), 176

  Bitterless syrup of quinidine (Syrupus quinidinae), 177

  Bittersweet, 80
    fluidextract, 80

  Black cohosh (Cimicifuga), 63
    elixir (Elixir viburni prunifolii), 227
    fluidextract (Fluidextractum cimicifuga), 63
    haw (Viburnum prunifolium), 227
    haw, fluidextract (Fluidextractum viburni prunifolii), 227
    lotion, 109
    mustard, 197
    pepper (Piper), 164
    snake-root (Cimicifuga), 63
    snake-root, fluidextract (Fluidextractum cimicifuga), 63
    wash (Lotio nigra), 109
    blackberries, 186
    blackberry bark (Rubus), 186
    cordial, 186
    elixir, compound, 186
    fruit, syrup, 186

  Bladderwrack (Fucus), 97

  Blaud's pills (Pilulae ferri carbonatis), 86

  Blistering cerate (Ceratum cantharidis), 54
    collodion (Collodium cantharidatum), 54

  Blood root (Sanguinaria), 189
    syrup (Syrupus sanguinariae), 189
    tincture (Tinctura sanguinariae), 189

  Blue cohosh (Caulophyllum), 59
    flag, 120
    flag, fluidextract, 120
    gum leaves (Eucalyptus), 83
    mass (Massa hydrargyri), 112
    ointment (Unguentum hydrargyri dilutum), 112
    pill (Massa hydrargyri), 112
    vervain (Verbena), 226

  Boldo, 43
    fluidextract, 43
    leaves, 43

  Boneset (Eupatorium), 84

  Boracic acid (Acidum boricum), 7

  Borax (Sodii boras), 200
    and honey (Mel sodii boratis), 200
    with honey of rose (Mel rosae et sodii boratis), 200

  Boric acid, 7
    acid, ointment, 7

  Boroglycerin, glycerite, 7
    suppositories, 101

  Boro-Salicylated powder of talc (Pulvis talci compositus), 12

  Boulton's solution (Liquor iodi phenolatus), 118

  Brayera, 43
    infusion, 43

  Breast tea (Species pectorales), 22

  Bromauric acid, 7

  Bromide and chloral, compound
      (Mistura chloralis et potassii bromidi composita), 61

  Bromides and potassium arsenate solution (Liquor arsenicalis clemens),
      168
    syrup, 170
    three, elixir, 26

  Bromine, 43
    solution, 43
    solution, Smith's (Liquor bromi), 43

  Bromoform, 43

  Broom tops (Scoparius), 193

  Brown mixture (Mistura glycyrrhizae composita), 150
    mustard (Sinapis nigra), 197
    ointment, 53
    plaster, camphorated, 53

  Bryonia, 44
    tincture, 44

  Bryony (Bryonia), 44

  Buchu, 44
    and potassium acetate, elixir, 44
    elixir, 44
    elixir, compound, 44
    fluidextract, 44
    fluidextract, compound, 44
    leaves, 44
    long, 44
    short, 44

  Buckbean (Menyanthes), 133

  Buckthorn bark (Frangula), 97
    bark, fluidextract (Fluidextractum frangulae), 97
    berries (Rhamnus Cathartica), 182
    berries, syrup (Syrupus rhamni catharticae), 183

  Burdock root (Lappa), 124

  Burnt alum (Alumen exsiccatum), 23
    sugar coloring (Caramel), 55

  Burow's solution (Liquor alumini acetatis), 23

  Butter of cacao (Oleum theobromatis), 148

  Butternut bark (Juglans), 120


  Cabbage rose (Rosa), 185

  Cacao butter (Oleum theobromatis), 148
    prepared, 44

  Cactus grandiflorus, 45
    grandiflorus, tincture, 45

  Cade, oil, 139
    petrox (Petroxolinum cadini), 139
    petroxolin, 139

  Caffeine, 45
    citrated, 45
    citrated, effervescent, 45
    sodio-benzoate, 45
    sodio-salicylate, 45
    with effervescent potassium bromide
      (Sal potassii bromidi effervescens compositus), 170

  Cajuput, oil, 139

  Calabar bean (Physostigma), 161
    bean, tincture (Tinctura physostigmatis), 162

  Calamine ointment, 46
    prepared, 46

  Calcined magnesia (Magnesii oxidum), 129

  Calcium and sodium glycerophosphates, elixir, 47
    and sodium hypophosphates syrup, 48
    bromide, 46
    bromide, elixir, 46
    carbonate, precipitated, 46
    chloride, 47
    cinchona alkaloids and iron lactophosphate elixir, 49
    glycerinophosphate (Calcii glycerophosphas), 47
    glycerophosphate, 47
    hydrochlorophosphate, syrup, 50
    hydroxide, solution, 52
    hypophosphite, 47
    hypophosphite elixir, 48
    hypophosphite syrup, 48
    iodide, 49
    iodide syrup, 49
    lactate, 49
    lactophosphate, 49
    lactophosphate and cod liver oil emulsion, 144
    lactophosphate and iron syrup, 50
    lactophosphate, cinchona alkaloids and iron elixir, 50
    lactophosphate elixir, 49
    lactophosphate syrup, 50
    oxide, 52
    oxysulphuret, solution (Liquor calcis sulphuratae), 51
    phosphate and cod liver oil emulsion, 144
    phosphate, precipitated, 50
    sulphide, crude, 50

  Calendula, 51
    flowers, 51
    fluidextract, 51
    tincture, 51

  Calisaya, alkaloidal elixir (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum), 180
    alkaloidal, ferrated elixir (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum et ferri),
      92
    alkaloidal, with hypophosphites, elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum et hypophosphitum), 180
    alkaloidal, with iron and pepsin, elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et pepsini), 156
    alkaloidal, with iron and strychnine, elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et strychninae), 213
    alkaloidal, with iron, bismuth and strychnine, elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri, bismuthi, et strychninae),
      213
    bark (Cinchona), 64
    iron and lactophosphate of lime, elixir
      (Elixir of cinchona alkaloids, iron and calcium lactophosphate),
      50

  Calomel (Hydrargyri chloridum mite), 109
    and jalap (Pulvis hydrargyri chloridi mitis et jalapae), 110
    and santonin troches (Trochisci santonini compositi), 190

  Calumba, 51
    fluidextract, 51
    tincture, 51

  Calx, 52
    chlorinata, 52
    sulphurata (Calcii sulphidum crudum), 50

  Cambogia, 52

  Campho-menthol (Menthol camphoratum), 133

  Camphor, 52
    and chloroform petrox (Petroxolinum chloroformi camphoratum), 62
    and menthol (Menthol camphoratum), 133
    and opium pills, 151
    cerate, 53
    liniment, 53
    mixture, acid, 149
    mixture, aromatic, 142
    mixture, Parrish's (Mistura camphorae aromatica), 142
    monobromated, 53
    ointment, 53
    spirit, 53
    wash, ammoniated (Lotio ammoniacalis camphorata), 25
    water, 53

  Camphorated brown plaster, 53
    chloral, 61
    chloroform petroxolin, 62
    menthol, 133
    motherplaster (Emplastrum fuscum camphoratum), 53
    oil (Linimentum camphorae), 53
    phenol petrox (Petroxolinum phenolis camphoratum), 160
    phenol petroxolin, 160
    soap liniment, 190
    tincture of opium, 152

  Canada liniment (Linimentum opii compositum), 149
    snake-root (Asarum), 34

  Canadian hemp (Apocynum), 31
    hemp, fluidextract (Fluidextractum apocyni), 31

  Canella, 53
    and aloes powder, 21

  Cannabis, 54
    extract, 54
    fluidextract, 54
    indica, 54
    tincture, 54

  Cantharidal collodion, 54

  Cantharides, 54
    cerate, 54
    plaster, 54
    tincture, 55

  Capsicum, 55
    and myrrh, tincture, 55
    oleoresin, 55
    plaster, 55
    tincture, 55

  Caramel, 55
    tincture, 55

  Caraway, 57
    oil, 140

  Carawayseed (Carum), 57

  Carbamate, ethyl, 17

  Carbamic, acid, ethyl, ester (Aethylis carbamas), 17

  Carbo ligni, 55

  Carbolic acid (Phenol), 159
    acid, glycerite, (Glyceritum phenolis), 159
    acid, iodized (Phenol iodatum), 160
    acid, liquefied (Phenol liquefactum), 160
    acid, ointment (Unguentum phenolis), 160
    acid water (Aqua phenolata), 159

  Carbolized oil (Oleum phenolatum), 159
    solution of iodine (Liquor iodi phenolatus), 118

  Carbonate, strontium, 210

  Carbonis, pix (Pix lithanthracis), 165

  Cardamom, elixir, compound, 140
    oil, 139
    seed, 56
    spirit, compound, 140
    tincture, 56
    tincture, compound, 56

  Carlsbad salt, artificial, 207
    salt, artificial, effervescent, 207

  Carminative, Dalby's (Mistura carminativa), 150
    mixture, 150

  Carmine, 56
    solution, 56

  Caro, 56

  Carrageen (Chondrus), 62

  Carron oil (Linimentum calcis), 52

  Carum, 57

  Caryophyllus, 57

  Cascara sagrada, 57
    elixir, 57
    elixir, compound, 57
    extract, 57
    extract, powdered (Extractum cascarae sagradae), 57
    fluidextract, 58
    fluidextract, aromatic, 58
    fluidglycerate, 58
    fluidglycerate, aromatic, 58

  Cascarilla, 58

  Cassia fistula, 58
    oil (Oleum cassiae), 140

  Castanea, 58

  Castile soap, white (Sapo), 190

  Castor oil, 146
    aromatic, 146
    emulsion, 146

  Cataplasm emollient (Species emollientes), 23
    of kaolin, 121

  Cataplasmata, 59

  Cataria, 59

  Cathartic elixir, compound, 97
    pills, compound, 71
    pills, vegetable, 71

  Catmint (Cataria), 59

  Catnep, 59
    fluidextract, 59

  Caulophyllum, 59
    fluidextract, 59

  Caustic potash (Potassii hydroxidum), 172
    soda (Sodii hydroxidum), 203

  Cayenne pepper (Capsicum), 55

  Celery fruit, 31
    fruit, fluidextract, 31
    seed (Apii fructus), 31

  Centaury, 59

  Cera alba, 59
    flava, 59

  Cerate, 59
    camphor, 53
    cantharides, 54
    of lead subacetate, 167
    simple (Ceratum), 59

  Cerates, 59

  Ceratum resinae, 181
    resinae compositum, 182

  Cerevisiae fermentum compressum, 60

  Cerium oxalate, 60

  Cetaceum, 60

  Ceylon cinnamon, 66

  Chalk and opium aromatic powder, 151
    drop (Creta praeparata), 75
    mixture, 76
    powder, aromatic, 66
    powder, compound, 76
    precipitated (Calcii carbonas praecipitatus), 46
    prepared, 75
    with mercury, 112

  Chalybeate pills (Pilulae ferri carbonatis), 86

  Chamomile, German (Matricaria), 131
    wild (Matricaria), 131

  Channing's solution (Liquor hydrargyri et potassi iodidi), 110

  Chapman's dinner pills, 20
    mixture (Mistura copaibae et opii), 73

  Charcoal (Carbo ligni), 55
    troches, 56

  Charta potassii nitratis, 173
    sinapis (Emplastrum sinapis), 197

  Chartae, 60

  Chemical food (Syrupus phosphatum compositum), 11

  Chenopodium, oil, 140

  Chestnut leaves (Castanea), 58
    leaves, fluidextract, 58

  Chillies, African (Capsicum), 55

  Chimaphila, 60
    fluidextract, 60

  Chionanthus, 60
    fluidextract, 60

  Chirata, 61
    fluidextract, 61

  Chiretta (Chirata), 61

  Chloral (Chloralum hydratum), 61
    and bromide compound
      (Mistura chloralis et potassii bromidi composita), 61
    and potassium bromide mixture, compound, 61
    camphorated, 61
    hydrate (Chloralum hydratum), 61
    hydrated, 61
    chloride of lime (Calx chlorinata), 52

  Chlorinated lime, 52
    potassa, 167
    potassa, solution, 167
    soda, 197
    soda solution, 197

  Chlorine, 62
    solution, compound, 62
    water (Liquor chlori compositus), 62

  Chloroform, 61
    and aconite liniment, 15
    and morphine mixture, compound, 62
    and opium mixture, compound, 150
    anodyne (Mistura chloroformi et morphinae composita), 62
    camphor and petrox (Petroxolinum chloroform, camphoratum), 62
    liniment, 62
    petroxolin, camphorated, 62
    spirit, 62
    water, 62

  Chlorum, 62

  Chondrus, 62
    gelatin, 63
    mucilage, 63

  Chromic acid (Chromii trioxidum), 63
    anhydride (Chromii trioxidum), 63

  Chromium trioxide, 63

  Chrysarobin, 63
    ointment, 63

  Churchill's tincture of iodine (Tinctura iodi fortior), 119

  Cimicifuga, 63
    extract, 63
    extract, powdered (Extractum cimicifugae), 63
    fluidextract, 63
    syrup, compound, 64
    tincture, 64

  Cinchona, 64
    alkaloids and hypophosphites, elixir, 180
    alkaloids and iron, elixir, 92
    alkaloids, elixir, 180
    alkaloids, iron and bismuth, elixir, 41
    alkaloids, iron and calcium lactophosphate, elixir, 49
    alkaloids, iron and pepsin elixir, 156
    alkaloids, iron and strychnine elixir, 213
    alkaloids, iron, bismuth and strychnine elixir, 213
    extract, 64
    fluidextract, 64
    fluidextract, aqueous, 65
    infusion, 65
    red, 65
    tincture, 65
    tincture, compound, 65
    yellow (Cinchona), 64

  Cinchonidine sulphate, 65

  Cinchonine sulphate, 65

  Cineol (Eucalyptol), 83

  Cinnamomum saigonicum, 66
    zeylanicum, 66

  Cinnamon, Ceylon, 66
    oil, 140
    saigon, 66
    spirit, 140
    syrup, 66
    tincture, 66
    water, 140

  Citrated caffeine, 45
    caffeine, effervescent, 45

  Citric acid, 8
    acid syrup, 8

  Citrine ointment (Unguentum hydrargyri nitratis), 111

  Clarified honey, 132

  Clemens' solution of arsenic, 168

  Clove, 57

  Cloves, oil (Oleum caryophylli), 140

  Coal tar, 165
    solution, 165

  Cocaine, 67
    chloride, (Cocainae hydrochloridum), 67
    hydrochloride, 67
    oleate, 67

  Cocculus indicus, 67
    indicus tincture, 67

  Coccus, 67

  Cochia pills (Pilulae colocynthidis compositae), 71

  Cochineal, 67
    color, 67

  Cocillana, 67
    fluidextract, 68

  Cocoa, 44
    soluble (Cacao praeparata), 44

  Cod liver oil, 144
    emulsion, 144
    with calcium lactophosphate, emulsion, 144
    with calcium phosphate, emulsion, 144
    with egg, emulsion, 145
    with hypophosphites, emulsion, 144
    with malt, emulsion, 144
    with phosphate of lime, emulsion
      (Emulsum olei morrhuae cum calcii phosphate), 144
    with wild cherry, emulsion, 144

  Codeine, 68
    and terpin hydrate, elixir, 68
    phosphate, 68
    sulphate, 68
    syrup, 68

  Coffee, 69
    fluidextract, 69
    roasted (Coffee tosta), 69

  Cola (Kola), 122
    nuts (Kola), 122

  Colchici semen, 69
    tinctura, (Tinctura colchici seminis), 70

  Colchicine, 70

  Colchicum corm, 69
    corm extract, 69
    corm, extract, powdered (Extractum colchici cormi), 69
    corm fluidextract, 69
    corm wine, 69
    root (Colchici cormus), 69
    seed, 69
    seed, fluidextract, 69
    seed tincture, 70
    seed wine, 70

  Cold cream (Unguentum aquae rosae), 186

  Cole's dinner pills, 20

  Colic root (Aletris), 19
    root (Dioscorea), 79

  Collodion, 176
    blistering (Collodium cantharidatum), 54
    cantharidal, 54
    croton oil, 148
    flexible, 176
    iodine, 118
    iodoform, 117
    salicylic, compound, 12
    styptic, 13
    vesicating (Collodium cantharidatum), 54

  Collodions, 70

  Colocynth, 70
    and hyoscyamus pills, 71
    and podophyllum pills, 71
    apple (Colocynthis), 70
    extract, 70
    extract, compound, 70
    extract, powdered, 70
    extract, powdered, compound (Extractum colocynthidis compositum), 70
    pills, compound, 71
    pulp (Colocynthis), 70

  Colombo (Calumba), 51

  Colophony (Resina), 181

  Colorless, hydrastine, solution (Liquor hydrastinae compositus), 113

  Coltsfoot, 85
    leaves (Farfara), 85

  Columba (Calumba), 51

  Composition powder (Pulvis myricae compositus), 135

  Compound acetanilid powder, 6
    anise powder (Pulvis rhei et magnesiae anisatus), 184
    cathartic elixir, 97
    cathartic pills, 71
    chalk powder, 76
    chloral and bromide (Mistura chloralis et potassii bromidi composita),
      61
    croton oil liniment, 149
    decoction of sarsaparilla, 191
    effervescent, salt of potassium bromide, 170
    effervescing powder, 172
    elixir of almond, 137
    elixir of blackberry, 186
    elixir of buchu, 44
    elixir of cardamon, 140
    elixir of cascara sagrada, 57
    elixir of corydalis, 74
    elixir of crampbark (Elixir viburni opuli compositum), 226
    elixir of formates, 8
    elixir of glycerophosphates, 203
    elixir of orange (Vinum aurantii compositum), 36
    elixir of pepsin and rennin, 156
    elixir of sodium salicylate, 206
    elixir of taraxacum, 217
    elixir of vanillin, 224
    elixir of viburnum opulus, 226
    extract of colocynth, 70
    extract of colocynth, powdered (Extractum colocynthidis compositum),
      70
    fluidextract of buchu, 44
    fluidextract of sarsaparilla, 191
    fluidextract of stillingiae, 209
    gargle of guaiac, 105
    infusion of gentian, 100
    infusion of rose, 186
    infusion of senna, 194
    iron mixture, 86
    laxative pills, 22
    licorice powder (Pulvis glycyrrhizae compositus), 194
    liniment of mustard, 147
    liniment of opium, 149
    liniment of soft soap, 190
    menthol inunction, 133
    menthol spray, 133
    mixture of chloral and potassium bromide, 61
    mixture of chloroform and morphine, 62
    mixture of glycyrrhiza, 150
    mixture of opium and chloroform, 150
    mixture of opium and rhubarb, 150
    mixture of rhubarb, 183
    oil of hyoscyamus, 115
    pancreatin powder, 153
    pills of aloes and podophyllum, 21
    pills of aloes, mercury and scammony, 21
    pills of aloin, 22
    pills of aloin, strychnine and belladonna, 22
    pills of antimony, 31
    pills of colocynth, 71
    pills of rhubarb, 184
    powder of bayberry, 135
    powder of gambir, 98
    powder of glycyrrhiza, 194
    powder of ipecac (Pulvis Ipecacuanhae et opii), 151
    powder of jalap, 120
    powder of kino and opium, 122
    powder of rhubarb, 184
    powder of talc, 12
    resorcinol ointment, 182
    rosin cerate, 182
    salicylate collodion, 12
    solution of chlorine, 62
    solution of cresol, 75
    solution of glycerophosphates (Elixir glycerophosphatum compositum),
      203
    solution of hydrastine, 113
    solution of hypophosphites, 48
    solution of iodine, 118
    solution of phosphates, 11
    solution of sodium borate, 200
    solution of sodium phosphate, 205
    solution of zinc and aluminum, 230
    solution of zinc and iron, 231
    spirit of cardamon, 140
    spirit of ether, 16
    spirit of juniper, 142
    spirit of lavender (Tinctura lavandulae composita), 142
    spirit of myrcia, 145
    spirit of orange, 138
    spirit of vanillin, 224
    sulphur ointment, 216
    sulphurated petrox (Petroxolinum sulphuratum compositum), 215
    sulphurated petroxolin, 215
    syrup of actaea, (Syrupus cimicifugae compositus), 64
    syrup of asarum (Syrupus asari compositus), 34
    syrup of cimicifuga, 64
    syrup of figs, 195
    syrup of hydrochlorophosphates
      (Syrupus phosphatum cum quinina et strychnina), 179
    syrup of hypophosphites, 49
    syrup of phosphates, 11
    syrup of sarsaparilla, 191
    syrup of senna, 195
    syrup of squill, 192
    syrup of stillingia, 209
    syrup of white pine, 164
    syrup of white pine with morphine, 135
    tar ointment, 146
    tincture of benzoin, 39
    tincture of cardamon, 56
    tincture of cinchona, 65
    tincture of cudbear, 157
    tincture of gambir, 98
    tincture of gentian, 100
    tincture of guaiac, 105
    tincture of jalap, 120
    tincture of kino (Tinctura kino et opii composita), 122
    tincture of kino and opium, 122
    tincture of lavender, 142
    tincture of pale catechu (Tinctura gambir composita), 98
    tincture of viburnum, 226
    tincture of zedoary (Tinctura zedoariae amara), 228
    troches of santonin, 190
    wine and rhubarb, 185
    wine of orange, 36

  Compressed yeast, 60

  Concentrated and refined diphtheria antitoxin
      (Serum antidiphthericum purificatum), 196
    diphtheria antitoxin (Serum antidiphthericum, purificatum), 196
    tetanus antitoxin (Serum antitetanicum purificatum), 196

  Condurango, 72
    fluidextract, 72

  Confection of rose, 185
    of senna, 194

  Confections, 72

  Conium, 72
    extract, 72
    fluidextract, 72
    maculatum (Conium), 72

  Conserves (Confectiones), 72

  Convallaria flowers, 72
    flowers, fluidextract, 72
    root, 72
    root, fluidextract, 73

  Copaiba, 73
    and opium, mixture, 73
    mass, 73
    mixture, 73
    solidified (Massa copaibae), 73

  Copaiva (Copaiba), 73

  Copper sulphate, 77

  Coptis, 73
    fluidextract, 73

  Cordial, blackberry, 186
    Godfrey's (Mistura opii et sassafras), 150

  Cordials, 73

  Coriander, 74
    oil, 141
    seeds (Coriandrum), 74

  Corn silk (Zea), 228
    starch (Amylum), 29

  Cornus, 74
    fluidextract, 74

  Corrigens elixir (Elixir eriodictyi aromaticum), 83
    syrupus (Syrupus eriodictyi aromaticus), 83

  Corrosive mercuric chloride, 108
    mercuric chloride mull, 109
    mercuric chloride tablets, poison, 109
    sublimate (Hydrargyri chloridum corrosivum), 108
    sublimate tablets (Toxitabellae hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi), 109

  Corydalis, 74
    elixir, compound, 74
    fluidextract, 73

  Cotarnine chloride (Cotarninae hydrochloridum), 74
    hydrochloride, 74

  Cotton, absorbent (Gossypium purificatum), 103
    purified, 103
    root bark, 103
    root bark, fluidextract, 103
    styptic, 86

  Cottonseed oil, 141

  Couch grass (Triticum), 222
    fluidextract (Fluidextractum tritici), 222

  Coumarin, 74

  Cow's milk, 123

  Crampbark (Viburnum opulus), 226
    elixir, compound (Elixir viburni opuli compositum), 226

  Cranberry bark, high bush (Viburnum opulus), 226

  Cranesbill (Geranium), 101

  Cream, cold (Unguentum aquae rosae), 186
    of tartar (Potassi bitartras), 169
    of tartar, and sulphur troches
      (Trochisci sulphuris et potassii bitartratis), 215

  Creasote (Creosotum), 75

  Creosote, 75
    carbonate, 75
    mull, salicylated, 12
    petrox (Petroxolinum creosoti), 75
    petroxolin, 75
    water, 75

  Cresol, 75
    solution, compound, 75

  Creta praeparata, 75

  Crocus, 76

  Croton oil, 148
    collodion, 148
    liniment, 149
    liniment, compound, 149

  Crude calcium sulphide, 50
    malate of iron (Extractum ferri pomatum), 90
    malate of iron tincture (Tinctura ferri pomata), 90

  Cubeb, 76
    fluidextract, 76
    oil, 141
    oleoresin, 76
    tincture, 76
    troches, 76

  Cubebs (Cubeba), 76

  Cudbear, 157
    tincture, 157
    tincture, compound, 157

  Culver's root (Leptandra), 124

  Cupric sulphate (Cupri sulphas), 77

  Curassao, replacing elixir (Elixir aurantii amari), 138

  Curled dock (Rumex), 187

  Cusso (Brayera), 43

  Cypripedium, 77
    fluidextract, 77

  Cystamin (Hexamethylenamina), 107

  Cystogen (Hexamethylenamina), 107


  Dalby's carminative (Mistura carminativa), 150

  Damiana, 77
    fluidextract, 77

  Dandelion (Taraxacum), 217
    fluidextract (Fluidextractum taraxaci), 218

  Deadly nightshade leaves (Belladonnae folia), 38
    nightshade root (Belladonnae radix), 39

  Decoction of sarsaparilla, compound, 191

  Decoctions, 77

  Decolorized tincture of iodine, 118

  Deer musk (Moschus), 135

  Dehydrated alcohol, 18

  Delphinium, 77

  Deodorant solution (Liquor zinci et ferri compositus), 231

  Deodorized opium, 151
    opium tincture, 152

  Dermatol (Bismuthi subgallas), 42

  Dermatologic pastes, 155

  Deshler's salve (Ceratum resinae compositum), 182

  Desiccated hypophysis, 116
    pituitary body (Hypophysis sicca), 116
    suprarenal glands (Suprarenalum siccum), 216
    thyroid glands (Thyroideum siccum), 220

  Dewees' carminative (Mistura magnesiae, asafoetidae et opii), 128
    tincture of guaiac (Tinctura guaiaci composita), 105

  Dextrin, white, 78

  Dextrinated paste, 78

  Diacetylmorphine, 78
    and terpin hydrate, elixir, 78
    chloride (Diacetylmorphinae hydrochloridum), 78
    hydrochloride, 78

  Diachylon ointment, 166
    plaster (Emplastrum plumbi), 166

  Diarrhea, mixture, Squibb's (Mistura opii et chloroform composita),
    150

  Diastase, 78

  Digitalis, 79
    fluidextract, 79
    infusion, 79
    leaves (Digitalis), 79
    quinine and opium pills, 151
    squill and mercury pills, 79
    tincture, 79

  Diluted acetic acid, 6
    alcohol, 18
    hydriodic acid, 9
    hydrobromic acid, 9
    hydrochloric acid, 9
    hydrocyanic acid, 9
    hypophosphorous acid, 10
    iodine petroxolin, 118
    mercurial ointment, 112
    nitrohydrochloric acid, 10
    nitromuriatic acid (Acidum nitrohydrochloricum, dilutum), 10
    phosphoric acid, 11
    prussic acid (Acidum hydrocyanicum dilutum), 9
    solution of lead subacetate, 167
    sulphuric acid, 13

  Dimethyl-ketone (Acetonum), 6

  Dimethylxanthine (Theophyllina), 219

  Dinner pills, 20
    Chapman's, 20
    Cole's, 20
    Hall's, 20
    Lady Webster's (Pilulae aloes et mastiches), 20

  Dionin (Aethylmorphinae hydrochloridum), 17

  Dioscorea, 79
    fluidextract, 80

  Diphtheria antitoxin (Serum antidiphthericum), 196
    antitoxin, concentrated (Serum antidiphthericum, purificatum), 196
    antitoxin, dried (Serum antidiphthericum siccum), 196
    antitoxin globulins (Serum antidiphthericum, purificatum), 196
    antitoxin, refined and concentrated
      (Serum antidiphthericum purificatum), 196

  Distilled extract of witch hazel (Aqua hamamelidis), 106
    water, 32
    water, sterilized, 32

  Diuretin (Theobrominae sodio-salicylas), 219

  Dobell's solution (Liquor sodii boratis compositus), 200

  Dog grass (Triticum), 222

  Dogwood bark (Cornus), 74

  Donovan's solution (Liquor arseni et hydrargyri iodidi), 33

  Dover's powder (Pulvis ipecacuanhae et opii), 151
    syrup (Syrupus Ipecacuanhae et opii), 151
    tincture (Tinctura Ipecacuanhae et opii), 152

  Dried alum (Alumen exsiccatum), 23
    antidiphtheric serum, 196
    antitetanic serum, 197
    diphtheria antitoxin (Serum antidiphthericum siccum), 196
    ferrous sulphate (Ferri sulphas exsiccatus), 93
    suprarenals, 216
    tetanus antitoxin (Serum antitetanicum siccum), 197
    thyroids, 220

  Drop chalk (Creta Praeparata), 75

  Drosera, 80
    fluidextract, 80

  Drugs, fresh tinctures, 221

  Dulcamara, 80

  Dwarf pine needles, oil of, 146
    pine oil (Oleum pini pumilionis), 146

  Eau sédative de raspail (Lotio ammoniacalis camphorata), 25

  Echinacea, 80
    fluidextract, 80

  Effervescent artificial Carlsbad salt, 207
    artificial Kissingen salt, 202
    artificial Vichy salt, 200
    artificial Vichy salt with lithium, 200
    citrated caffeine, 45
    potassium bromide with caffeine
      (Sal potassii bromidi effervescens compositus), 170
    potassium citrate, 171
    salt of lithium citrate, 126
    salt of potassium bromide, 170
    salt of potassium bromide, compound, 170
    salts, granular, 188
    sodium phosphate, 206
    solution of magnesium sulphate, 129
    solution of sodium citro-tartrate, 202

  Effervescing powder, compound, 172

  Egg albumen, fresh, 152
    and cod liver oil emulsion, 145
    fresh, 153
    yolk, fresh, 152
    yolk, glycerite, 153

  Eisenzucker (Ferri oxidum saccharatum), 91

  Elaeosacchara (Oleosacchara), 137

  Elaterin, 80
    trituration, 81

  Elder flowers (Sambucus), 188

  Elecampane (Inula), 117

  Electuaries (Confectiones), 72

  Elixir adjuvans (Elixir glycyrrhizae), 19
    amygdalae compositum, 137
    aromaticum, 18
    aurantii amari, 138
    aurantiorum compositum (Vinum aurantii compositum), 36
    calisaya, alkaloidal (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum), 180
    cathartic, compound, 97
    corrigens (Elixir eriodictyi aromaticum), 83
    corydalis compositum, 74
    curassao, replacing, (Elixir aurantii amari), 138
    ferri pyrophosphatis, 93
    ferri pyrophosphatis, quininae et strychninae, 93
    glycerophosphatum (Elixir calcii et sodii glycerophosphatum), 47
    humuli, 108
    laxative (Elixir cascarae sagradae compositum), 57
    of almond, compound, 137
    of ammonium bromide, 26
    of ammonium valerate, 28
    of anise, 29
    of bismuth, 41
    of bitter orange, 138
    of black haw (Elixir viburni prunifolii), 227
    of blackberry, compound, 186
    of buchu, 44
    of buchu and potassium acetate, 44
    of buchu compound, 44
    of calcium and sodium glycerophosphates, 47
    of calcium bromide, 46
    of calcium hypophosphite, 48
    of calcium lactophosphate, 49
    of calisaya, alkaloidal ferrated
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum et ferri), 92
    of calisaya, alkaloidal, with hypophosphites
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum et hypophosphitum), 180
    of calisaya, alkaloidal, with iron and bismuth
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et bismuthi), 41
    of calisaya, alkaloidal, with iron and pepsin
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et pepsini), 156
    of calisaya, alkaloidal, with iron and strychnine
      (Elixir cinchonae, alkaloidorum, ferri et strychninae), 213
    of calisaya, alkaloidal, with iron, bismuth and strychnine
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri, bismuthi et strychninae),
      213
    of calisaya, iron and lactophosphate of lime
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et calcii lactophosphatis),
      50
    of cardamon, compound, 140
    of cascara sagrada, 57
    of cascara sagrada, compound, 57
    of cinchona alkaloids, 180
    of cinchona alkaloids, and hypophosphites, 180
    of cinchona alkaloids and iron, 92
    of cinchona alkaloids, iron and bismuth, 41
    of cinchona alkaloids, iron and calcium lactophosphate, 49
    of cinchona alkaloids, iron and pepsin, 156
    of cinchona alkaloids, iron and strychnine, 213
    of cinchona alkaloids, iron, bismuth and strychnine, 213
    of corydalis, compound, 74
    of crampbark, compound (Elixir viburni opuli compositum), 226
    of eriodictyon, aromatic, 83
    of ferric hypophosphite, 89
    of ferric phosphate, 92
    of ferric pyrophosphate, 93
    of ferric pyrophosphate, quinine and strychnine, 93
    of formates, 8
    of formates compound, 8
    of gentian, 100
    of gentian and ferric phosphate, 92
    of gentian and iron, 87
    of gentian, glycerinated, 100
    of gentian with tincture of ferric
      citro-chloride (Elixir gentianae et ferri), 87
    of glycerophosphates compound, 203
    of glycyrrhiza, 19
    of glycyrrhiza, aqueous, 102
    of glycyrrhiza, aromatic, 19
    of guarana, 106
    of hops, 108
    of hypophosphites, 48
    of hypophosphites and iron, 89
    of iron lactate, 90
    of iron, quinine and strychnine, 87
    of licorice (Elixir glycyrrhizae), 19
    of licorice, aqueous (Elixir glycyrrhizae aquosum), 102
    of licorice, aromatic (Elixir glycyrrhizae aromaticum), 19
    of lithium bromide, 125
    of lithium citrate, 126
    of lithium salicylate, 126
    of orange, compound (Vinum aurantii compositum), 36 of pepsin, 156
    of pepsin and bismuth, 156
    of pepsin and iron, 156
    of pepsin and rennin compound, 156
    of pepsin, bismuth and strychnine, 212
    of phosphorus, 161
    of phosphorus and nux vomica, 161
    of potassium acetate, 168
    of potassium acetate and juniper, 168
    of potassium bromide, 170
    of pyrophosphate of iron (Elixir ferri pyrophosphate), 93
    of quinine valerate and strychnine, 181
    of sodium bromide, 201
    of sodium hypophosphite, 204
    of sodium salicylate, 206
    of sodium salicylate compound, 206
    of strychnine valerate, 214
    of taraxacum compound, 217
    of terpin hydrate, 218
    of terpin hydrate and codeine, 68
    of terpin hydrate and diacetylmorphine, 78
    of three bromides, 26
    of vanillin compound, 224
    of viburnum opulus compound, 226
    of viburnum prunifolium, 227
    of yerba santa, aromatic (Elixir eriodictyi aromaticum), 83
    of zinc valerate, 231
    pepsini, 156
    pepsini, bismuth et strychninae, 212
    pepsini et bismuthi, 156
    pepsini et ferri, 156
    pepsini et rennini compositum, 156
    phosphori, 161
    phosphori et nucis vomicae, 161
    potassii acetatis, 168
    potassii acetatis et juniperi, 168
    potassii bromidi, 170
    quininae valeratis et strychninae, 181
    quininae, valerianatis, et strychninae, 181
    red (Elixir aromaticum rubrum), 19
    red aromatic, 19
    rhamni purshianae (Elixir cascarae sagradae), 57
    rhamni purshianae co. (Elixir cascarae sagradae compositum), 57
    rubi compositum, 186
    simple (Elixir aromaticum), 18
    sodii bromidi, 201
    sodii hypophosphitis, 204
    sodii salicylatis, 206
    sodii salicylatis compositum, 206
    strychninae valeratis, 214
    strychninae valerianatis (Elixir strychninae valeratis), 214
    taraxaci compositum, 217
    terpini hydratis, 218
    terpini hydratis et codeinae, 68
    terpini hydratis cum heroina
      (Elixir terpini hydratis et diacetylmorphinae), 78
    terpini hydratis et diacetylmorphinae, 78
    trium bromidorum, 26
    vanillini compositum, 224
    viburni opuli compositum, 226
    viburni prunifolii, 227
    zinci valeratis, 231
    zinci valerianatis (Elixir zinci valeratis), 231

  Elixirs, 81

  Elm, 223
    bark (Ulmus), 223
    troches, 223

  Emetine hydrochloride, 81

  Emollient cataplasm (Species emollientes), 23
    species, 23

  Emplastra, 82

  Emplastrum
      See also under Plaster
    belladonnae, 38
    cantharidis, 54
    capsici, 55
    elasticum, 182
    fuscum camphoratum, 53
    plumbi, 166
    resinae, 182
    saponis, 190
    sinapis, 197

  Empyroligneous oil of birch, rectified
      (Oleum betulae empyreumaticum rectificatum), 139

  Emulsion of almond, 29
    of asafetida, 34
    of castor oil, 146
    of cod liver oil, 144
    of cod liver oil with calcium lactophosphate, 144
    of cod liver oil with calcium phosphate, 144
    of cod liver oil with egg, 145
    of cod liver oil with hypophosphites, 144
    of cod liver oil with malt, 144
    of cod liver oil with phosphate of lime
      (Emulsum olei morrhuae cum calcii phosphate), 144
    of cod liver oil with wild cherry, 144
    of oil of turpentine, 148
    of petrolatum, 158

  Emulsions, 82

  Emulsum amygdalae, 29
    olei morrhuae, 144
    olei morrhuae cum calcii lactophosphate, 144
    olei, morrhuae, cum, calcii phosphate, 144
    olei morrhuae cum hypophosphitibus, 144
    olei morrhuae cum malto, 144
    olei morrhuae cum pruno virginiana, 144
    olei morrhuae cum vitello, 145
    olei ricini, 146
    olei terebinthinae, 148

  Epsom salt (Magnesii sulphas), 129

  Ergot, 82
    extract, 82
    extract, aqueous, 82
    fluidextract, 82
    of rye (Ergota), 82
    tincture, ammoniated, 82

  Eriodictyon, 83
    elixir, aromatic, 83
    fluidextract, 83
    syrup, aromatic, 83

  Eserine salicylate (Physostigminae salicylas), 162

  Essence of peppermint (Spiritus menthae piperitae), 143

  Essentia pepsini (Elixir pepsini et rennini compositum), 156

  Ether, 16
    acetic, 17
    nitrous, 17
    nitrous, spirit, 17
    petroleum (Benzinum purificatum), 39
    spirit, 16
    spirit, compound, 16

  Ethereal oil, 137
    tincture of ferric chloride, 87
    tinctures, 221

  Ethyl acetate (Aether aceticus), 17
    carbamate, 17
    chloride, 17
    ester, carbamic acid (Aethylis carbamas), 17
    nitrate (Aether nitrosus), 17
    urethane (Aethylis carbamas), 17

  Ethylmorphine chloride (Aethylmorphinae hydrochloridum), 17
    hydrochloride, 17

  Eucaine (Betaeucainae hydrochloridum), 40
    chloride (Betaeucainae hydrochloridum), 40

  Eucalyptol, 83
    petrox (Petroxolinum eucalyptolis), 83
    petroxolin, 83
    spray, 83

  Eucalyptus, 83
    fluidextract, 84
    leaves (Eucalyptus), 83
    oil, 141

  Eugenol, 84

  Euonymus, 84
    extract, 84
    extract, powdered (Extractum euonymi), 84
    fluidextract, 84

  Eupatorium, 84
    fluidextract, 84

  Euphorbia pilulifera, 84
    pilulifera, fluidextract, 84

  European goat's rue (Galega), 98

  Expectorant, Stokes', 26

  Expressed oil of almond, 138

  Exsiccated alum, 23
    ferrous sulphate, 93
    sodium arsenate, 198
    sodium phosphate, 205
    sodium sulphite, 207

  Extract, Goulard's (Liquor plumbi subacetatis), 167
    of aconite, 15
    of aconite, powdered (Extractum aconiti), 15
    of aloes, 20
    of aloes, powdered (Extractum aloes), 20
    of apples, ferrated, 90
    of apples, ferrated, tincture, 90
    of beef, 56
    of belladonna leaves, 38
    of cannabis, 54
    of cascara sagrada, 57
    of cascara sagrada, powdered (Extractum cascarae sagrada), 57
    of cimicifuga, 63
    of cimicifuga, powdered (Extractum cimicifugae), 63
    of cinchona, 64
    of colchicum corm, 69
    of colchicum corm, powdered (Extractum colchici cormi), 69
    of colocynth, 70
    of colocynth, compound, 70
    of colocynth, powdered (Extractum colocynthidis), 70
    of colocynth compound, powdered (Extractum colocynthidis compositum),
      70
    of conium, 72
    of ergot, 82
    of ergot, aqueous, 82
    of euonymus, 84
    of euonymus, powdered (Extractum euonymi), 84
    of gelsemium, 99
    of gelsemium, powdered (Extractum gelsemii), 99
    of gentian, 100
    of glycyrrhiza, 102
    of glycyrrhiza, pure, 102
    of golden seal (Extractum hydrastis), 114
    of hematoxylon, 106
    of hydrastis, 114
    of hydrastis, powdered (Extractum hydrastis), 114
    of hyoscyamus, 115
    of ignatia, 116
    of ignatia, powdered (Extractum ignatiae), 116
    of jalap, 120
    of krameria, 122
    of krameria, powdered (Extractum krameriae), 122
    of leptandra, 124
    of leptandra, powdered (Extractum leptandrae), 124
    of licorice (Extractum glycyrrhizae), 102
    of malt, 129
    of nux vomica, 136
    of nux vomica, powdered (Extractum nucis vomicae), 136
    of opium, 149
    of opium, powdered (Extractum opii), 149
    of oxgall, 85
    of oxgall, powdered (Extractum fellis bovis), 85
    of physostigma, 162
    of physostigma, powdered (Extractum physostigmatis), 162
    of podophyllum, 167
    of quassia, 176
    of quassia, powdered (Extractum quassiae), 176
    of rhubarb, 183
    of rhubarb, powdered (Extractum rhei), 183
    of stramonium, 210
    of sumbul, 216
    of taraxacum, 218
    of viburnum prunifolium, 227
    of viburnum prunifolium, powdered (Extractum viburni prunifolii),
      227
    of witch hazel, distilled (Aqua hamamelidis), 106

  Extracts, 85
    solid, 85

  Extractum
      See also under Extract.
    carnis, 56
    euonymi, 84
    fellis bovis, 85
    ferri pomatum, 90
    rhamni purshianae (Extractum cascarae sagradae), 57
    rhei, 183


  False unicorn (Helonias), 107

  Farfara, 85

  Fel bovis, 85

  Fennel, 96
    oil, 141
    seed, 96
    water, 141

  Fermented milk, 123

  Ferrated elixir of calisaya, alkaloidal
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum et ferri), 92
    extract of apples, 90
    wine of wild cherry, 174

  Ferri carbonas, 85
    carbonas saccharatus, 86
    cinchonae et calcii lactophosphatis, elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et calcii lactophosphatis),
      50
    et ammonii citras, 87
    et quininae citras, 88
    et quininae citras solubilis (Ferri et quininae citras), 88
    iodidi syrupus (Syrupus ferri iodidi), 90
    iodidum, 90
    lactas, 90
    lactophosphas, 90
    malas, 90
    malas crudus (Extractum ferri pomatum), 90
    oxidum saccharatum, 91
    protochloridum, 92
    tersulphas, 94

  Ferric acetate, 85
    acetate solution, 85
    and gentian phosphate elixir, 92
    chloride, 86
    chloride solution, 86
    chloride, tincture, ethereal, 87
    chloride, tasteless tincture (Tinctura ferri citro-chloridi), 87
    chloride tincture, 86
    citrate, 87
    citrate, soluble (Ferri et ammonii citras), 87
    citrate solution, 87
    citro-chloride tincture, 87
    citro-chloride tincture with gentian
      elixir (Elixir gentianae et ferri), 87
    glycerinophosphate (Ferri glycerophosphas), 88
    glycerophosphate, 88
    hydrate with magnesia (Ferri hydroxidum cum magnesii oxido), 88
    hydroxide, 88
    hydroxide (Magma ferri hydroxidi), 89
    hydroxide magma, 89
    hydroxide, with, magnesium oxide, 88
    hypophosphite, 89
    hypophosphite elixir, 89
    hypophosphite solution, 89
    hypophosphite syrup, 89
    nitrate, 91
    nitrate solution, 91
    oxide, soluble (Ferri oxidum saccharatum), 91
    oxychloride, 91
    oxychloride solution, 91
    oxysulphate, 91
    oxysulphate solution, 91
    phosphate, 91
    phosphate elixir, 92
    phosphate, soluble (Ferri phosphas), 91
    pyrophosphate, 92
    pyrophosphate elixir, 93
    pyrophosphate, quinine and strychnine elixir, 93
    pyrophosphate, soluble (Ferri pyrophosphas), 92
    salicylate solution, 206
    subsulphate, 93
    subsulphate solution, 93
    sulphate, basic solution (Liquor ferri subsulphatis), 93
    sulphate solution, 94

  Ferrous carbonate, 85
    carbonate mass, 85
    carbonate pills, 86
    chloride, 92
    chloride solution, 92
    chloride syrup, 92
    iodide, 90
    iodide pills, 90
    iodide syrup, 90
    lactate, 90
    malate, 90
    sulphate, 93
    sulphate, dried (Ferri sulphas exsiccatus), 93
    sulphate, exsiccated, 93
    sulphate, granulated, 94
    sulphate, precipitated (Ferri sulphas granulatus), 94

  Ferruginous pills (Pilulae ferri carbonatis), 86

  Ferrum, 94
    albuminatum, 94
    oxydatum saccharatum (Ferri oxidum saccharatum), 91
    peptonatum, 94
    redactum (Ferrum reductum), 95

  Ficus, 96

  Fig, 96

  Figs, syrup compound, 195

  Firm zinc glycerogelatin, 229

  Fish berry (Cocculus indicus), 67

  Flaxseed (Linum), 124
    oil (Oleum lini), 143

  Fleming's solution (Liquor calcis sulphuratae), 51

  Flexible collodion, 176

  Flies, Russian (Cantharis), 54
    Spanish (Cantharis), 54

  Flowers of sulphur (Sulphur sublimatum), 215

  Fluidextract, aromatic, 66
    of aconite, 15
    of adonis, 16
    of aletris, 19
    of angelica root, 30
    of apocynum, 31
    of aralia, 32
    of arnica, 33
    of asclepias, 35
    of aspidosperma, 35
    of baptisia, 38
    of belladonna root, 39
    of berberis, 40
    of bitter orange peel, 36
    of bittersweet, 80
    of black cohosh (Fluidextractum cimicifuga), 63
    of black haw (Fluidextractum viburni prunifolii), 227
    of black snakeroot (Fluidextractum cimicifuga), 63
    of blue flag, 120
    of boldo, 43
    of buchu, 44
    of buchu compound, 44
    of buckthorn bark (Fluidextractum frangulae), 97
    of calendula, 51
    of calumba, 51
    of Canadian hemp (Fluidextractum apocyni), 31
    of cannabis, 54
    of cascara sagrada, 58
    of cascara sagrada, aromatic, 58
    of catnep, 59
    of caulophyllum, 59
    of celery fruit, 31
    of chestnut leaves, 58
    of chimaphila, 60
    of chionanthus, 60
    of chirata, 61
    of cimicifuga, 63
    of cinchona, 64
    of cinchona, aqueous, 65
    of cocillana, 68
    of coffee, 69
    of colchicum corm, 69
    of colchicum seed, 69
    of condurango, 72
    of conium, 72
    of convallaria flowers, 72
    of convallaria root, 73
    of coptis, 73
    of cornus, 74
    of corydalis, 74
    of cotton root bark, 103
    of couch grass (Fluidextractum tritici), 222
    of cubeb, 76
    of cypripedium, 77
    of damiana, 77
    of dandelion (Fluidextractum taraxaci), 218
    of digitalis, 79
    of dioscorea, 80
    of drosera, 80
    of echinacea, 80
    of ergot, 82
    of eriodictyon, 83
    of eucalyptus, 84
    of euonymus, 84
    of eupatorium, 84
    of euphorbia pilulifera, 84
    of frangula, 97
    of fucus, 97
    of galega, 98
    of gelsemium, 99
    of gentian, 100
    of geranium, 101
    of ginger, 231
    of glycyrrhiza, 102
    of green hellebore (Fluidextractum veratri viridis), 225
    of grindelia, 104
    of guarana, 106
    of hamamelis leaves, 106
    of helianthemum, 107
    of helonias, 107
    of henbane (Fluidextractum hyoscyami), 115
    of hops, 108
    of hydrangea, 108
    of hydrastis, 114
    of hyoscyamus, 115
    of ipecac, 119
    of jaborandi (Fluidextractum pilocarpi), 163
    of jalap, 120
    of juglans, 121
    of juniper berries, 121
    of kava, 121
    of kola, 122
    of krameria, 123
    of lappa, 124
    of leptandra, 124
    of lobelia, 126
    of lupulin, 127
    of matico, 131
    of mezereum, 134
    of mullein leaves, 225
    of musk root (Fluidextractum sumbul), 216
    of nux vomica, 136
    of paracoto, 154
    of pareira, 155
    of parsley root, 159
    of phytolacca, 162
    of pilocarpus, 163
    of pinkroot (Fluidextractum spigeliae), 208
    of podophyllum, 167
    of pomegranate, 103
    of prickly ash (Fluidextractum xanthoxyli), 228
    of quassia, 176
    of quebracho (Fluidextractum aspidospermatis), 35
    of quercus, 176
    of rhamnus cathartica, 183
    of rhubarb, 183
    of rhus glabra, 185
    of rose, 186
    of rubus, 187
    of rumex, 187
    of sabal, 187
    of sanguinaria, 189
    of sarsaparilla, 191
    of sarsaparilla compound, 191
    of saw palmetto (Fluidextractum sabal), 187
    of scoparius, 193
    of scutellaria, 193
    of senecio, 194
    of senega, 194
    of senna, 194
    of serpentaria, 195
    of solanum, 208
    of spigelia, 208
    of squill, 192
    of staphisagria, 209
    of stavesacre (Fluidextractum staphisagria), 209
    of stillingia, 209
    of stillingiae compound, 209
    of stramonium, 210
    of sumbul, 216
    of taraxacum, 218
    of thuja, 220
    of thyme, 220
    of trifolium, 222
    of trillium, 222
    of triticum, 222
    of uva ursi, 223
    of valerian, 224
    of veratrum viride, 225
    of verbena, 226
    of viburnum opulus, 226
    of viburnum prunifolium, 227
    of wild cherry, 174
    of xanthoxylum, 228
    of zea, 228

  Fluidextracts, 96

  Fluidextractum
      See also under Fluidextract.
    apii fructi, 31
    aurantii amari, 36
    castaneae, 58
    catariae, 59
    corni, 74
    coto (Fluidextractum paracoto), 154
    dulcamarae, 80
    gossypii corticis, 103
    granati, 103
    humuli, 108
    iridis versicoloris, 120
    petroselini radicis, 159
    pruni virginianae, 174
    rhei, 183
    rhois glabrae, 185
    scillae, 192
    turnerae (Fluidextractum damianae), 77
    verbasci foliae, 225
    zingiberis, 231

  Fluidglycerate of cascara sagrada, 58
    of cascara sagrada, aromatic, 58
    of glycyrrhiza, 102
    of krameria, 123
    of licorice (Fluidglyceratum glycyrrhizae), 102
    of rhubarb, 183

  Fluidglycerates, 96

  Foeniculum, 96

  Formaldehyde, 96
    solution, 96

  Formamin (Hexamethylenamina), 107

  Formates elixir, 8
    elixir, compound, 8

  Formic acid, 8
    acid spirit, 8

  Formin (Hexamethylenamina), 107

  Fowler's solution (Liquor potassii arsenitis), 168

  Foxglove (Digitalis), 79

  Francis' triplex pills
      (Pilulae aloes, hydrargyri et scammonii compositae), 21

  Frangula, 97
    fluidextract, 97

  Fraxinus, 97

  French mixture (Liquor iodi phenolatus), 118

  Fresh apple juice, 214
    drugs, tinctures, 221
    egg, 153
    egg albumen, 152
    egg yolk, 152

  Fringe tree bark (Chionanthus), 60

  Frost-weed (Helianthemum), 107

  Fucus, 97
    fluidextract, 97


  Galangal, 98

  Galega, 98
    fluidextract, 98

  Galla, 98

  Gallic acid, 9

  Gallotannic acid (Acidum tannicum), 13

  Gambir, 98
    powder, compound, 98
    tincture, compound, 98
    troches, 99

  Gamboge, 52
    pipe (Cambogia), 52

  Gargle of guaiac compound, 105

  Garlic, 19
    syrup, 19

  Gaultheriae, oleum (Methylis alicylas), 133

  Gelatin, 99
    glycerinated, 99

  Gelatinum chondri, 63

  Gelsemium, 99
    extract, 99
    extract, powdered (Extractum gelsemii), 99
    fluidextract, 99
    tincture, 99

  Gentian, 99
    and ferric phosphate elixir, 92
    and iron elixir, 87
    and rhubarb tincture, 185
    elixir, 100
    elixir, glycerinated, 100
    extract, 100
    fluidextract, 100
    infusion, compound, 100
    tincture, compound, 100
    with tincture of ferric citrochloride,
      elixir of (Elixir gentianae et ferri), 87

  Geranium, 101
    fluidextract, 101

  German chamomile (Matricaria), 131

  Gilead buds, balm of (Populi gemmae), 167

  Ginger, 231
    fluidextract, 231
    oleoresin, 232
    syrup, 232
    tincture (Tinctura zingiberis), 232
    wild (Asarum), 34

  Glacial acetic acid, 6

  Glandulae suprarenales siccae (Suprarenalum siccum), 216

  Glandulae thyroideae siccae (Thyroideum siccum), 220

  Glauber's salt (Sodii sulphas), 206

  Glonoin (Glycerylis nitras), 101
    pills (Pilulae glycerylis nitratis), 102
    spirit (Spiritus glycerylis nitratis), 102

  Glucose, 101
    liquid (Glucosum), 101
    syrupy (Glucosum), 101

  Glusidum (Benzosulphinidum), 40

  Glycerin, 101
    suppositories, 101

  Glycerinated elixir of gentian, 100
    gelatin, 99
    vaccine virus (Virus vaccinicum), 227

  Glycerite of bismuth, 41
    of boroglycerin, 7
    of carbolic acid (Glyceritum phenolis), 159
    of egg yolk, 153
    of golden seal (Glyceritum hydrastis), 114
    of guaiac, 105
    of hydrastis, 114
    of pepsin, 157
    of phenol, 159
    of starch, 29
    of tannic acid, 13
    of tannin (Glyceritum acidi tannici), 13
    of tar, 165
    of tragacanth, 221

  Glycerites, 101

  Glyceritum amyli, 29
    picis liquidae, 165
    vitelli, 153

  Glycerogelatinum acidi salicylici, 12
    iodoformi, 117
    zinci durum, 229
    zinci molle, 229

  Glycerol (Glycerinum), 101

  Glycerophosphates elixir, compound, 203
    solution, compound (Elixir glycerophosphatum compositum), 203

  Glyceryl trinitrate, 101
    trinitrate spirit, 102

  Glycerylis nitras, 101

  Glyconin (Glyceritum vitelli), 153

  Glycyrrhiza, 102
    elixir, 19
    elixir, aqueous, 102
    elixir, aromatic, 19
    extract, 102
    extract, pure, 102
    fluidextract, 102
    fluidglycerate, 102
    mixture, compound, 150
    powder, compound, 194
    syrup, 103

  Glycyrrhizin, ammoniated, 103

  Goat's rue, European (Galega), 98

  Godfrey's cordial (Mistura opii et sassafras), 150

  Gold and arsenic bromide solution, 7
    and sodium chloride, 37

  Golden seal (Hydrastis), 114
    extract (Extractum hydrastis), 114
    glycerite (Glyceritum hydrastis), 114
    tincture (Tinctura hydrastis), 114

  Goldthread (Coptis), 73

  Gossypii cortex, 103

  Gossypium purificatum, 103
    stypticum, 86

  Goulard's cerate (Ceratum plumbi subacetatis), 167
    extract (Liquor plumbi subacetatis), 167

  Granatum, 103

  Granular effervescent salts, 188
    ferrous sulphate, 94
    opium, 151

  Gray powder (Hydrargyrum cum creta), 112

  Green hellebore (Veratrum viride), 225
    hellebore, fluidextract (Fluidextractum veratri viridis), 225
    soap, tincture (Linimentum saponis mollis), 190

  Gregory's powder (Pulvis rhei compositus), 184

  Griffith's mixture (Mistura ferri composita), 86

  Grindelia, 104
    fluidextract, 104

  Guaiac, 104
    gargle, compound, 105
    glycerite, 105
    mixture, 105
    resin (Guaiacum), 104
    tincture, 105
    tincture, ammoniated, 105
    tincture, compound, 105
    tincture, Dewees' (Tinctura guaiaci composita), 105
    wood, 104
    lignum, 104

  Guaiacol, 104
    carbonate, 104
    petrox (Petroxolinum guaiacolis), 105
    petroxolin, 105

  Guaiacum, 104

  Guarana, 105
    elixir, 106
    fluidextract, 106

  Gum arabic (Acacia), 5
    asafetida (Asafoetida), 34
    benjamin (Benzoinum), 39
    myrrh (Myrrha), 136
    senegal (Acacia), 5
    tragacanth (Tragacantha), 221

  Gun cotton, soluble (Pyroxylinum), 175

  Gutta percha, 106
    solution, 106

  Guttae pectorales (Tinctura pectoralis), 152

  Guy's pills (pilulae digitalis, scillae et hydrargyri), 79


  Haematoxylon, 106

  Hall's dinner pills, 20
    solution of strychnine (Liquor strychninae acetatis), 212

  Hamamelis, 106
    leaves, 106
    leaves, fluidextract, 106
    water, 106

  Hartshorn liniment (Linimentum ammoniae), 25

  Heavy magnesia (Magnesii oxidum ponderosum), 129
    magnesium oxide, 129

  Hebra's itch ointment (Unguentum sulphuris compositum), 216

  Helianthemum, 107
    fluidextract, 107

  Hellebore, American (Veratrum viride), 225
    green (Veratrum viride), 225

  Helonias, 107
    fluidextract, 107

  Hematoxylon extract, 106

  Hemlock, poison (Conium), 72

  Henbane (Hyoscyamus), 115
    fluidextract (Fluidextractum hyoscyami), 115
    tincture (Tinctura hyoscyami), 115

  Heroin (Diacetylmorphina), 78
    hydrochloride (Diacetylmorphinae hydrochloridum), 78

  Hexamethylenamine, 107

  Hexamethylene-Tetramine (Hexamethylenamina), 107

  Hiera picra (Pulvis aloes et Canellae), 21

  High bush cranberry bark (Viburnum opulus), 226

  Hive syrup (Syrupus scillae compositus), 192

  Hoffmann's anodyne (Spiritus aetheris compositus), 16
    drops (Spiritus aetheris compositus), 16

  Homatropine bromide (Homatropinae hydrobromidum), 107
    hydrobromide, 107

  Honey, 132
    and borax (Mel sodii boratis), 200
    clarified, 132
    of rose, 132
    of rose and sodium borate, 200
    of rose with borax (Mel rosae et sodii boratis), 200
    of sodium borate, 200

  Honeys, 132

  Hope's mixture (Mistura camphorae acida), 149

  Hops, 108
    elixir, 108
    fluidextract, 108
    tincture, 108

  Horsenettle berries (Solanum), 207

  Hot drops (Tinctura capsici et myrrhae), 55

  Humulus, 108

  Hydrangea, 108
    fluidextract, 108

  Hydrargyri chloridum corrosivum, 108
    chloridum mite, 109
    iodidum flavum, 110
    iodidum rubrum, 110
    nitras, 110
    oxidum flavum, 111
    oxidum rubrum, 111
    salicylas, 111
    unguentum (Unguentum hydrargyri dilutum), 112

  Hydrargyrum, 112
    ammoniatum, 113
    cum creta, 112

  Hydrastine, 113
    chloride (Hydrastinae hydrochloridum), 113
    hydrochloride, 113
    solution, colorless (Liquor hydrastinae compositus), 113
    solution, compound, 113

  Hydrastis, 114
    extract, 114
    extract, powdered (Extractum hydrastis), 114
    fluidextract, 114
    glycerite, 114
    tincture, 114

  Hydrated chloral, 61

  Hydriodic acid, diluted, 9
    acid, syrup, 9

  Hydrobromic acid, diluted, 9

  Hydrochloric acid, 9
    acid, syrup, 9
    solution of arsenic (Liquor acidi arsenosi), 34
    hydrochlorophosphates syrup, compound
      (Syrupus phosphatum cum quinina et strychnina), 179

  Hydrocyanic acid, diluted, 9

  Hydrogen dioxide, 114
    dioxide solution, 115
    peroxide (Hydrogenii dioxidum), 114
    peroxide solution (Liquor hydrogenii dioxidi), 115

  Hydrous wool fat (Adeps lanae hydrosus), 16

  Hyoscine hydrobromide (Scopolaminae hydrobromidum), 193

  Hyoscyami folium (Hyoscyamus), 115
    tinctura (Tinctura hyoscyami), 115

  Hyoscyamine bromide (Hyoscyaminae hydrobromidum), 115
    hydrobromide, 115

  Hyoscyamus, 115
    and colocynth pills, 71
    extract, 115
    fluidextract, 115
    oil, compound, 115
    tincture, 115

  Hypophosphite of iron, solution of (Liquor ferri hypophosphitis), 89

  Hypophosphites and calisaya, alkaloidal, elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, et hypophosphitum), 180
    and cinchona alkaloids, elixir, 180
    and iron elixir, 89
    elixir, 48
    solution, 48
    solution, compound, 48
    syrup, 48
    syrup, compound, 49
    with cod liver oil emulsion, 144

  Hypophosphorous acid, 10
    acid, diluted, 10

  Hypophysis, desiccated, 116
    solution, 116


  Ignatia, 116
    amara (Ignatia), 116
    extract, 116
    extract, powdered (Extractum ignatiae), 116
    tincture, 116

  India senna or Alexandria senna (Senna), 194

  Indian berry (Cocculus indicus), 67
    tobacco (Lobelia), 126

  Indigo carmine (Sodii Indigotindisulphonas), 204

  Infusa, 116

  Infused oils, 137

  Infusion of brayera, 43
    of cinchona, 65
    of digitalis, 79
    of gentian compound, 100
    of rose compound, 186
    of senna compound, 194
    of wild cherry, 174

  Infusions, 116

  Infusum pruni virginianae, 174

  Inula, 117

  Inunction, menthol, 132
    menthol, compound, 133

  Inunctions, 117

  Iodi carbolatus, liquor (Liquor iodi phenolatus), 118

  Iodine, 117
    collodion, 118
    ointment, 119
    petrox 5% (Petroxolinum iodi dilutum), 118
    petrox 10% (Petroxolinum iodi), 118
    petroxolin, 118
    petroxolin, diluted, 118
    solution, carbolized (Liquor iodi phenolatus), 118
    solution, compound, 118
    solution, phenolated, 118
    tincture, 118
    tincture, Churchill's (Tinctura iodi fortior), 119
    tincture, decolorized, 118
    tincture, stronger, 119

  Iodized phenol, 160

  Iodoform, 117
    aromatized, 117
    collodion, 117
    glycerogelatin, 117
    ointment, 117
    petrox (Petroxolinum iodoformi), 117
    petroxolin, 117

  Iodotannin syrup, 118

  Iodum, 117

  Ipecac, 119
    and opium powder, 151
    and opium syrup, 151
    and opium tincture, 152
    fluidextract, 119
    powder, compound (Pulvis ipecacuanhae et opii), 151
    syrup, 119
    wine, 119

  Ipecacuanhae radix, 119

  Iris, 119
    versicolor, 120

  Irish moss (Chondrus), 62
    moss gelatin (Gelatinum chondri), 63
    moss mucilage (Mucilago chondri), 63

  Iron, 94
    albuminate, 94
    albuminate, solution, 94
    and aloes pills, 20
    and ammonium acetate, solution, 25
    and ammonium citrate, 87
    and beef wine, 57
    and calcium lactophosphate, syrup, 50
    and cinchona alkaloids elixir, 92
    and gentian elixir, 87
    and hypophosphites elixir, 89
    and manganese iodide syrup, 90
    and manganese, peptonate, solution, 95
    and pepsin elixir, 156
    and protochloride solution (Liquor ferri protochloridi), 92
    and quinine citrate, 88
    and quinine citrate, soluble (Ferri et quininae citras), 88
    and zinc solution, compound, 231
    beef and wine (Vinum carnis et ferri), 57
    bismuth and calisaya, alkaloidal, elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et bismuthi), 41
    bismuth and cinchona alkaloids elixir, 41
    bismuth, calisaya, alkaloidal, and strychnine, elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri, bismuthi et strychninae),
      213
    bismuth, strychnine and cinchona alkaloids elixir, 213
    bitter wine, 88
    by hydrogen (Ferrum reductum), 95
    calisaya alkaloidal and strychnine elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et strychninae), 213
    calisaya and lactophosphate of lime elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et calcii lactophosphatis),
      50
    cinchona alkaloids and calcium lactophosphate elixir, 49
    cinchona alkaloids and strychnine elixir, 213
    citrate, wine, of (Vinum ferri), 88
    citro-chloride, 87
    crude malate (Extractum ferri pomatum), 90
    elixir of pyrophosphate of iron (Elixir ferri pyrophosphatis), 93
    hypophosphite, solution (Liquor ferri hypophosphitis), 89
    lactate (Ferri lactas), 90
    lactate elixir, 90
    lactophosphate, 90
    lactophosphate syrup, 90
    malate (Ferri malas), 90
    mixture compound, 86
    pepsin and calisaya, alkaloidal, elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum ferri et pepsini), 156
    pepsin and cinchona alkaloids elixir, 156
    peptonate, 94
    perchloride (Ferri chloridum), 86
    perchloride solution (Liquor ferri chloride), 86
    protochloride (Ferri protochloridum), 92
    protochloride, syrup (Syrupus ferri protochloridi), 92
    protosulphate (Ferri sulphas), 93
    Quevenne's (Ferrum reductum), 95
    quinine, aloes, and nux vomica pills, 94
    quinine and strychnine elixir, 87
    quinine and strychnine, syrup of the phosphates of, 92
    quinine, strychnine and arsenic pills, mild, 95
    quinine, strychnine and arsenic pills, stronger, 95
    reduced, 95
    saccharated oxide of, syrup (Syrupus ferri saccharati solubilis), 91
    salicylated mixture (Liquor ferri salicylatis), 206
    sesquichloride (Ferri chloridum), 86
    soluble oxide of syrup (Syrupus ferri saccharati solubilis), 91
    solution of peptonate of, 94
    tersulphate (Ferri tersulphas), 94
    tersulphate solution (Liquor ferri tersulphatis), 94
    tincture of crude malate (Tinctura ferri pomata), 90
    tincture, tasteless (Tinctura ferri citro-chloridi), 87
    wine, 88


  Jaborandi (Pilocarpus), 163
    fluidextract (Fluidextractum pilocarpi), 163

  Jackson's pectoral syrup (Syrupus morphinae et acaciae), 134

  Jalap, 120
    and calomel (Pulvis hydrargyri chloridi mitis et Jalapae), 110
    and mild mercurous chloride powder, 110
    extract, 120
    fluidextract, 120
    powder, compound, 120
    resin, 120
    tincture, 120
    tincture, compound, 120

  Jamaica ginger tincture (Tinctura zingiberis), 232

  James' powder (Pulvis antimonialis), 30

  Jamestown weed (Stramonium), 210

  Janeway's pills (Pilulae aloes et podophylli compositae), 21

  Javelle water (Liquor potassae chlorinatae), 167

  Jennerian vaccine (Virus vaccinicum), 227

  Jimson weed (Stramonium), 210

  Juglans, 120
    fluidextract, 121

  Juniper and potassium acetate
    elixir, 168
    berries, 121
    berries, fluidextract, 121
    berries, oil (Oleum juniper), 141
    oil, 141
    spirit, 142
    spirit, compound, 142
    tar, oil (Oleum cadinum), 139

  Juniperus, 121


  Kaolin, 121
    cataplasm, 121

  Kava, 121
    fluidextract, 121

  Kava Kava (Kava), 121

  Kentish's ointment (Linimentum terebinthinae), 148

  Kermes mineral (Antimonium sulphuratum), 30

  Kieselguhr, purified (Terra silicea purificata), 219

  Kino, 121
    and opium powder, compound, 122
    and opium tincture, compound, 122
    composita, tinctura (Tinctura kino et opii composita), 122
    compositus, pulvis (Pulvis kino et opii compositus), 122
    tincture, 122
    tincture, compound (Tinctura kino et opii composita), 122

  Kissingen salt, artificial, 202
    artificial, effervescent, 202

  Kola, 122
    fluidextract, 122
    nuts (Kola), 122

  Kousso (Brayera), 43

  Krameria, 122
    extract, 122
    extract, powdered (Extractum krameriae), 122
    fluidextract, 123
    fluidglycerate, 123
    syrup, 123
    tincture, 123

  Kumyss (Lac fermentatum), 123


  Labarraque's solution (Liquor sodae chlorinatae), 197

  Lac fermentatum, 123
    sulphuris (Sulphur praecipitatum), 215
    vaccinum, 123

  Lactic acid, 10

  Lactophosphate of lime, calisaya, and iron, elixir
      (Elixir of cinchona alkaloids, iron and calcium lactophosphate),
      50

  Lactose (Saccharum lactis), 188

  Lactucarium, 123
    syrup, 123
    tincture, 124

  Lady slipper root (Cypripedium), 77
    Webster's dinner pill (Pilulae aloes et mastiches), 20

  Lafayette mixture (Mistura copaibae), 73

  Lamotte's drops (Tinctura ferri chloridi aetherea), 87

  Lanolin (Adeps lanae hydrosus), 16
    anhydrous (Adeps lanae), 15

  Lapis calaminaris (Calamina praeparata), 46

  Lappa, 124
    fluidextract, 124

  Larch agaric (Agaricus), 18
    turpentine (Terebinthina laricis), 218

  Lard, 15
    benzoinated, 15

  Larkspur seed, 77
    tincture, 78

  Lassar's mild resorcinol paste (Pasta resorcinolis mitis), 182
    naphthol paste (Pasta betanaphtholis), 40
    stronger resorcinol paste (Pasta resorcinolis fortis), 182
    zinc paste (Pasta zinci), 229

  Laudanum (Tinctura opii), 152
    Sydenham's (Tinctura opii crocata), 152

  Laughing gas (Nitrogenii monoxidum), 136

  Lavender oil, 142
    spirit, 142
    spirit, compound (Tinctura lavandulae composita), 142
    tincture, compound, 142

  Laxative elixir (Elixir cascarae sagradae compositum), 57
    pills, compound, 22
    pills, post partum, 71
    species, 195

  Lead acetate, 165
    and opium lotion, 165
    and opium pills, 151
    and opium wash (Lotio plumbi et opii), 16
    carbonate, 166
    iodide, 166
    oxide, 166
    oxide, red, 166
    plaster, 166
    red (Plumbi oxidum rubrum), 166
    subacetate, 167
    subacetate solution, 167
    subacetate solution, diluted, 167
    subacetate, cerate, 167
    sugar (Plumbi acetas), 165
    water (Liquor plumbi subacetatis dilutus), 167
    white (Plumbi carbonas), 166

  Lemon oil, 143
    peel, 124
    peel tincture, 124

  Leptandra, 124
    extract, 124
    extract, powdered, 124
    fluidextract, 124

  Licorice (Glycyrrhiza), 102
    elixir (Elixir glycyrrhizae), 19
    elixir, aqueous (Elixir glycyrrhizae aquosum), 102
    elixir, aromatic (Elixir glycyrrhizae aromaticum), 19
    extract (Extractum glycyrrhizae), 102
    fluidglycerate (Fluidglyceratum glycyrrhizae), 102
    powder, compound (Pulvis glycyrrhizae compositus), 194
    syrup (Syrupus glycyrrhizae), 103

  Life root (Senecio), 193

  Light magnesia (Magnesii oxidum), 129

  Lignum vitae (Guaiaci lignum), 104

  Lily-of-the-valley flowers (Convallariae flores), 72
    root (Convallariae radix), 72

  Lime (Calx), 52
    chloride (Calx chlorinata), 52
    chlorinated, 52
    elixir of calisaya, iron and lactophosphate of lime
      (Elixir of cinchona alkaloids, iron and calcium lactophosphate),
      49
    juice, 214
    juice and pepsin, 157
    liniment, 52
    potassa with, 172
    soda with, 198
    sulphurated (Calcii sulphidum crudum), 50
    sulphurated, solution, 51
    water (Liquor calcis), 52

  Limonis cortex, 124

  Liniment, acetic turpentine, 148
    ammonia, 25
    belladonna, 39
    camphor, 53
    camphorated soap, 190
    Canada (Linimentum opii compositum), 149
    chloroform, 62
    hartshorn (Linimentum ammoniae), 25
    lime, 52
    of aconite and chloroform, 15
    of ammonium iodide, 28
    of croton oil, 149
    of croton oil, compound, 149
    of mustard compound, 147
    of opium compound, 149
    of soft soap, 190
    of soft soap compound, 190
    St. John Long's (Linimentum terebinthinae aceticum), 148
    soap, 190
    Stokes' (Linimentum terebinthinae aceticum), 148
    turpentine, 148
    volatile (Linimentum ammoniae), 25

  Liniments, 124

  Linimentum aconiti et chloroformi, 15
    album (Linimentum terebinthinae aceticum), 148
    ammonii iodidi, 28
    calcis, 52
    saponis mollis, 190
    saponis mollis compositum, 190
    sinapis compositum, 147
    terebinthinae, 148
    terebinthinae aceticum, 148
    tiglii, 149
    tiglii compositum, 149

  Linseed, 124
    oil, 143
    oil, raw (Oleum lini), 143

  Linum, 124

  Liquefied carbolic acid (Phenol liquefactum), 160
    phenol, 160

  Liquid apiol (Oleoresina petroselini), 159
    glucose (Glucosum), 101
    opodeldoc (Linimentum saponis), 190
    paraffin (Petrolatum liquidum), 158
    petrolatum, 158
    petrox (Petroxolinum liquidum), 158
    petroxolin, 158
    storax (Styrax), 214

  Liquor
      See also under Solution.
    acidi arsenosi, 34
    alumini acetatis, 23
    alumini, acetatis (Liquor alumini subacetatis), 24
    alumini acetico-tartratis, 24
    alumini subacetatis, 24
    ammoniae anisatus (Spiritus ammoniae anisatus), 25
    ammonii acetatis, 25
    ammonii citratis, 27
    antisepticus, 7
    antisepticus alkalinus, 169
    arseni et hydrargyri iodidi, 33
    arsenicalis (Liquor potassii arsenitis), 168
    arsenicalis Clemens, 168
    arsenicalis Fowleri (Liquor potassii arsenitis), 168
    arsenicalis Pearsonii (Liquor sodii arsenatis, Pearson), 198
    auri et arseni bromidi, 7
    bismuthi, 42
    bromi, 43
    Burowii (Liquor alumini acetatis), 23
    calcis, 52
    calcis sulphuratae, 51
    carmini, 56
    chlori compositus, 62
    cocci, 67
    cresolis compositus, 75
    ferri acetatis, 85
    ferri albuminati, 94
    ferri chloridi, 86
    ferri citratis, 87
    ferri et ammonii acetatis, 25
    ferri hypophosphitis, 89
    ferri nitratis, 91
    ferri oxychloridi, 91
    ferri oxysulphatis, 91
    ferri peptonati, 94
    ferri peptonati cum mangano (Liquor ferri peptonati et mangani), 95
    ferri peptonati et mangani, 95
    ferri protochloridi, 92
    ferri salicylatis, 206
    ferri subsulphatis, 93
    ferri tersulphatis, 94
    formaldehydi, 96
    guttae perchae, 106
    hydrargyri et potassii iodidi, 110
    hydrargyri nitratis, 110
    hydrastinae compositus, 113
    hydrogenii dioxidi, 115
    hypophosphitum, 48
    hypophosphitum compositus, 48
    hypophysis, 116
    iodi carbolatus (Liquor iodi phenolatus), 118
    iodi compositus, 118
    iodi phenolatus, 118
    magnesii citratis, 128
    magnesii sulphatis effervescens, 129
    pancreaticus (Liquor pancreatini), 153
    pepsini, 157
    pepsini antisepticus, 157
    pepsini aromaticus, 157
    phosphatum acidus, 11
    phosphatum compositus, 11
    phosphori, 161
    picis alkalinus, 165
    picis carbonis, 165
    plumbi subacetatis, 167
    plumbi subacetatis dilutus, 167
    potassae (Liquor potassii hydroxidi), 172
    potassae chlorate (Liquor potassae chlorinatae), 167
    potassae chlorinatae, 167
    potassi arsenatis et bromidi (Liquor arsenicalis clemens), 168
    potassii citratis, 171
    potassii hydroxidi, 172
    sodae (Liquor sodii hydroxidi), 204
    sodae chlorinatae, 197
    sodae et menthae, 199
    sodii arsenatis, 198
    sodii arsenatis, Pearson, 198
    sodii boratis compositus, 200
    sodii chloridi physiologicus, 202
    sodii citratis, 202
    sodii citro-tartratis effervescens, 202
    sodii glycerophosphatis, 203
    sodii hydroxidi, 204
    sodii phosphatis compositus, 205
    strychninae acetatis, 212
    zinci chloridi, 229
    zinci et alumini compositus, 230
    zinci et ferri compositus, 231

  Liquores, 125

  Liquorice root (Glycyrrhiza), 102

  Litharge (Plumbi oxidum), 166
    Lithium bromide, 125
    bromide elixir, 125
    carbonate, 125
    citrate, 126
    citrate, effervescent salt, 126
    citrate elixir, 126
    salicylate, 126
    salicylate elixir, 126
    with effervescent artificial vichy salt, 200

  Liver of sulphur (Potassa sulphurata), 168

  Lobelia, 126
    fluidextract, 126
    tincture, 127

  Logwood (Haematoxylon), 106

  London paste (Soda cum calce), 198

  Long buchu, 44

  Lotio ammoniacalis camphorata, 25
    flava, 111
    nigra, 109

  Lotion of lead and opium, 165
    Vleminckx' (Liquor calcis sulphuratae), 51
    yellow, 111

  Lotions, 127

  Lozenges (Trochisci), 223

  Lugol's solution (Liquor iodi compositus), 118

  Lunar caustic (Argenti nitras fusus), 33

  Lupulin, 127
    fluidextract, 127
    oleoresin, 127

  Lycopodium, 127


  Mace, 127

  Macrotys (Cimicifuga), 63

  Madderwort (Absinthium), 5

  Magma bismuthi, 42
    ferri hydroxidi, 89
    magnesiae, 128

  Magmas, 128

  Magnesia (Magnesii oxidum), 129
    and rhubarb powder, anisated, 184
    asafetida and opium mixture, 128
    calcined (Magnesii oxidum), 129
    heavy (Magnesii oxidum ponderosum), 129
    light (Magnesii oxidum), 129
    magma, 128
    milk (Magma magnesiae), 128
    with ferric hydrate (Ferri hydroxidum cum magnesii oxido), 88

  Magnesium carbonate, 128
    chloride, 128
    citrate, 128
    citrate solution, 128
    hydroxide, 128
    oxide, 129
    oxide heavy, 129
    oxide with ferric hydroxide, 88
    sulphate, 129
    sulphate solution, effervescent, 129

  Male fern (Aspidium), 35
    oleoresin (Oleoresina aspidii), 35

  Mallow leaves, 130

  Malt, 129
    and cod liver oil emulsion, 144
    extract, 129

  Malvae folia, 130

  Mandrake (Podophyllum), 167

  Manganese and iron peptonate solution, 95
    and sodium citrate (Mangani citras solubilis), 130
    citrate, soluble, 130
    dioxide, precipitated, 130
    glycerophosphate, soluble, 130
    hypophosphite, 130
    iodide and iron, syrup, 90
    sulphate, 131

  Manganous glycerophosphate, soluble
      (Mangani glycerophosphas solubilis), 130

  Manna, 131
    syrup, 131

  Marigold (Calendula), 51

  Marsh mallow leaves (Althaeae folia), 23
    mallow root (Althaea), 22
    trefoil (Menyanthes), 133

  Mass of copaiba, 73
    of ferrous carbonate, 85
    of mercury, 112
    Vallet's (Massa ferri carbonatis), 85

  Masses, 131

  Mastic, 131
    and aloes pills, 20
    Matico, 131
    fluidextract, 131
    leaves (Matico), 131

  Matricaria, 131

  May apple rhizome (Podophyllum), 167

  Meadow anemone (Pulsatilla), 174

  Mel, 132
    boracis (Mel sodii boratis), 200
    depuratum, 132
    rosae, 132
    rosae et sodii boratis, 200
    sodii boratis, 200

  Melilot, 132

  Mellita, 132

  Mentha piperita, 132
    viridis, 132

  Menthol, 132
    and camphor (Menthol camphoratum), 133
    camphorated, 133
    inunction, 132
    inunction compound, 133
    petrox (Petroxolinum mentholis), 133
    petroxolin, 133
    spray, 133
    spray compound, 133

  Menyanthes, 133

  Mercurial ointment, 112
    ointment, diluted, 112

  Mercuric chloride (Hydrargyri chloridum corrosivum), 108
    chloride, corrosive, 108
    chloride, corrosive, poison tablets, 109
    chloride mull, corrosive, 109
    iodide (Hydrargyri iodidum rubrum), 110
    iodide and arsenous solution, 33
    iodide, red, 110
    nitrate, 110
    nitrate ointment, 111
    nitrate solution, 110
    oxide, red, 111
    oxide, red, ointment, 111
    oxide, yellow, 111
    oxide, yellow, ointment, 111
    salicylate, 111
    subsalicylate (Hydrargyri salicylas), 111

  Mercurous chloride (Hydrargyri chloridum mite), 109
    chloride and jalap, mild, powder, 110
    chloride, mild, 109
    iodide (Hydrargyri iodidum flavum), 110
    iodide, yellow, 110

  Mercury, 112
    ammoniated, 113
    ammoniated ointment, 113
    and potassium iodide solution, 110
    and scammony and aloes compound pills, 21
    bichloride (Hydrargyri chloridum corrosivum), 108
    biniodide (Hydrargyri iodidum rubrum), 110
    digitalis, and squill, pills, 79
    iodide, red (Hydrargyri iodidum rubrum), 110
    iodide, yellow (Hydrargyri iodidum flavum), 110
    mass, 112
    oleate, 112
    perchloride (Hydrargyri chloridum corrosivum), 108
    petrox (Petroxolinum hydrargyri), 112
    petroxolin, 112
    podophyllum and aloes pills, 21
    protochloride (Hydrargyri chloridum mite), 109
    protoiodide (Hydrargyri iodidum flavum), 110
    subchloride (Hydrargyri chloridum mite), 109
    with chalk, 112

  Metallic pills
      (Pilulae ferri, quininae, strychninae et arseni fortiores), 95

  Methyl salicylate, 133
    salicylate petrox (Petroxolinum methylis salicylatis), 133
    salicylate petroxolin, 133

  Methylene blue (Methylthioninae chloridum), 133

  Methylmorphine (Codeina), 68

  Methylthioninae hydrochloridum (Methylthioninae chloridum), 133

  Methylthionine chloride, 133

  Methysticum (Kava), 121

  Mezereon (Mezereum), 134

  Mezereum, 134
    fluidextract, 134

  Mild mercurous chloride, 109
    mercurous chloride and jalap powder, 110
    pills of iron, quinine, strychnine and arsenic, 95
    resorcinal paste, 182
    resorcinal paste, Lassar's (Pasta resorcinolis mitis), 182

  Milk, cow's, 123
    fermented, 123
    of almond (Emulsum amygdalae), 29
    of asafetida (Emulsion asafoetidae), 34
    of bismuth (Magma bismuthi), 42
    of magnesia (Magma magnesia), 128
    of sulphur (Sulphur praecipitatum), 215
    sugar (Saccharum lactis), 188

  Mindererus spirit (Liquor ammonii acetatis), 25

  Mineral oil (Petrolatum liquidum), 158

  Mint and soda, solution, 199
    soda (Liquor sodae et menthae), 199

  Mistura
      See also under Mixture.
    adstringens et escharotica (Mistura adstringens), 77
    ammonii chloridi, 27
    antidysenterica (Mistura camphorae acida), 149
    chloroformi et cannabis indicae composita
      (Mistura chloroformi et morphinae composita), 62
    cretae, 76
    olei picis, 145
    opii alkalina (Mistura opii et sassafras), 150
    pectoralis Stokes, 26
    picis liquidae (Mistura olei picis), 145
    sassafras et opii (Mistura opii et sassafras), 150
    sodae et menthae (Liquor sodae et menthae), 199
    sodii citratis (Liquor sodii citratis), 202
    solvens simplex (Mistura ammonii chloridi), 27

  Mixture, acid camphor, 149
    aromatic camphor, 142
    astringent, 77
    Basham's (Liquor ferri et ammonii acetatis), 25
    brown (Mistura glycyrrhizae composita), 150
    carminative, 150
    chalk, 76
    Chapman's (Mistura copaibae et opii), 73
    copaiba, 73
    copaiba and opium, 73
    Griffith's (Mistura ferri composita), 86
    Hope's (Mistura camphorae acida), 149
    iron, compound, 86
    Lafayette (Mistura copaibae), 73
    of ammonium chloride, 27
    of chloral and potassium bromide compound, 61
    of chloroform and morphine compound, 62
    of glycyrrhiza compound, 150
    of guaiac, 105
    of iron, salicylate (Liquor ferri salicylatis), 206
    of magnesia, asafetida and opium, 128
    of oil of tar, 145
    of opium and chloroform compound, 150
    of opium and rhubarb compound, 150
    of opium and sassafras, 150
    of rhubarb, alkaline, 183
    of rhubarb and soda (Mistura rhei composita), 183
    of rhubarb compound, 183
    oleo-balsamic, 142
    Parrish's camphor (Mistura camphorae aromatica), 142
    Squibb's diarrhea (Mistura opii et chloroformi composita), 150
    sun cholera (Mistura opii et rhei composita), 150
    tar (Mistura olei picis), 145
    Villate's (Mistura adstringens), 77

  Mixtures, 134

  Molded silver nitrate, 32

  Monkshood (Aconitum), 14

  Monobromated camphor, 53

  Monsel's solution (Liquor ferri subsulphatis), 93
    Morphine, 134
    and acacia syrup, 134
    and chloroform mixture, compound, 62
    chloride (Morphinae hydrochloridum), 134
    hydrochloride, 134
    sulphate, 135
    with compound syrup of white pine, 135

  Moschus, 135

  Motherplaster, camphorated (Emplastrum fuscum camphoratum), 53

  Mother's salve (Unguentum fuscum), 53

  Mucilage of acacia, 5
    of chondrus, 63
    of Irish moss (Mucilago chondri), 63
    of sassafras pith, 191
    of tragacanth, 221

  Mucilages, 135

  Mull, corrosive mercuric chloride, 109
    salicylic acid, 12
    zinc, 229

  Mulla creosoti salicylata, 12

  Mullein flowers, 225
    leaves (Verbasci folia), 225
    leaves, fluidextract, 225

  Mulls, 135

  Muriatic acid (Acidum hydrochloricum), 9

  Musk, 136
    deer (Moschus), 135
    root (Sumbul), 216
    root, fluidextract (Fluidextractum sumbul), 216
    tincture, 135
    tonquin (Moschus), 135

  Mustard, black, 197
    brown (Sinapis nigra), 197
    liniment, compound, 147
    oil (Oleum sinapis volatile), 147
    oil, volatile, 147
    paper (Emplastrum sinapis), 197
    plaster, 197
    spirit, 147
    white, 197
    yellow (Sinapis alba), 197

  Mutton suet (Sevum praeparatum), 197

  Myrcia oil, 145
    spirit, compound, 145

  Myrica, 135

  Myristica, 136
    oil, 145

  Myrrh, 136
    and aloes pills, 20
    and aloes tincture, 21
    and capsicum tincture, 55
    gum (Myrrha), 136
    tincture, 136


  Naphthol (Betanaphthol), 40
    paste, Lassar's (Pasta betanaphtholis), 40

  Nebula aromatica, 158
    eucalyptolis, 83
    mentholis, 133
    mentholis composita, 133
    thymolis, 220

  Nebulae, 136

  Neroli, oil (Oleum aurantii florum), 138

  Neutralizing cordial (Mistura rhei alkalina), 183

  Niemeyer pills for dropsy (Pilulae digitalis, scillae et hydrargyri),
    79
    pills for phthisis (Pilulae opii, digitalis et quininae), 151

  Night blooming cereus (Cactus grandiflorus), 45

  Nitre, sweet spirit (Spiritus aetheris nitrosi), 17

  Nitric acid, 10

  Nitrogen monoxide, 136

  Nitroglycerin (Glycerylis nitras), 101
    pills, 102
    spirit (Spiritus glycerylis nitratis), 102

  Nitrohydrochloric acid, 10
    acid, diluted, 10

  Nitromuriatic acid (Acidum nitrohydrochloricum), 10
    acid, diluted (Acidum nitrohydrochloricum dilutum), 10

  Nitrous ether, 17
    ether spirit, 17
    oxide (Nitrogenii monoxidum), 136

  Normal salt solution (Liquor sodii chloridi physiologicus), 202

  Nutgall, 98
    ointment, 98
    tincture, 98

  Nutmeg (Myristica), 136
    oil (Oleum myristicae), 145

  Nux vomica, 136
    and phosphorus elixir, 161
    extract, 136
    extract, powdered (Extractum nucis vomicae), 136
    fluidextract, 136
    iron, quinine and aloes pills, 94
    tincture, 137


  Oil, anise (Oleum anisi), 138
    benne (Oleum sesami), 147
    camphorated (Linimentum camphorae), 53
    carbolized (Oleum phenolatum), 159
    cassia (Oleum cassiae), 140
    castor, 146
    castor, aromatic, 146
    castor, emulsion, 146
    cod liver, 144
    cod liver, emulsion, 144
    cod liver, with calcium lactophosphate emulsion, 144
    cod liver, with calcium phosphate emulsion, 144
    cod liver, with egg emulsion, 145
    cod liver, with hypophosphites emulsion, 144
    cod liver, with malt emulsion, 144
    cod liver, with phosphate of lime emulsion
      (Emulsum olei morrhuae cum calcii phosphate), 144
    cod liver, with wild cherry emulsion, 144
    cottonseed, 141
    croton, 148
    croton, collodion, 148
    croton, liniment, 149
    croton, liniment compound, 149
    ethereal, 137
    linseed, 143
    linseed, raw (Oleum lini), 143
    mineral (Petrolatum liquidum), 158
    mustard (Oleum sinapis volatile), 147
    of allspice (Oleum pimentae), 146
    of almond, expressed, 138
    of American wormseed (Oleum chenopodii), 140
    of anise, 138
    of bay (Oleum myrciae), 145
    of bergamot, 139
    of birch, rectified empyroligneous
      (Oleum betulae empyreumaticum rectificatum), 139
    of birch tar, rectified, 139
    of bitter almond, 137
    of bitter orange, 138
    of cade, 139
    of cajuput, 139
    of caraway, 140
    of cardamon, 139
    of chenopodium, 140
    of cinnamon, 140
    of clove, 140
    of coriander, 141
    of cubeb, 141
    of dwarf pine needles, 146
    of eucalyptus, 141
    of fennel, 141
    of flaxseed (Oleum lini), 143
    of hyoscyamus, compound, 115
    of juniper, 141
    of Juniper berries (Oleum juniperi), 141
    of juniper tar (Oleum cadinum), 139
    of lavender, 142
    of lemon, 143
    of mustard, volatile, 147
    of myrcia, 145
    of myristica, 145
    of neroli (Oleum aurantii florum), 138
    of nutmeg (Oleum myristicae), 145
    of orange, 138
    of orange flowers, 138
    of peppermint, 143
    of pimenta, 146
    of rosemary, 146
    of sandalwood (Oleum santali), 146
    of santal, 146
    of sassafras, 147
    of spearmint, 143
    of star anise, 138
    of sweet almond (Oleum amygdalae expressum), 138
    of sweet birch (Methylis salicylas), 133
    of sweet orange (Oleum aurantii), 138
    of tar mixture, 145
    of tar, rectified, 145
    of teaberry (Methylis salicylas), 133
    of theobroma, 148
    of thyme, 148
    of turpentine, 147
    of turpentine emulsion, 148
    of turpentine, rectified, 147
    of wintergreen (Methylis salicylas), 133
    olive, 145
    phenolated, 159
    phosphorated, 161
    pimento (Oleum pimentae), 146
    rosemary (Oleum rosmarini), 146
    santalwood (Oleum santali), 146
    sesame, 147
    spray, aromatic, 158
    tar, rectified, (Oleum picis liquidae rectificatum), 145
    teel (Oleum sesami), 147
    turpentine (Oleum terebinthinae), 147
    turpentine, rectified (Oleum terebinthinae rectificatum), 147

  Oils, infused, 137
    volatile spirits, 208

  Oil-Sugars, 137

  Ointment, 15
    basilicon (Ceratum resinae), 181
    belladonna, 38
    blue (Unguentum hydrargyri dilutum), 112
    brown, 53
    calamine, 46
    camphor, 53
    chrysarobin, 63
    citrine (Unguentum hydrargyri nitratis), 111
    diachylon, 166
    Hebra's itch (Unguentum sulphuris compositum), 216
    iodine, 119
    iodoform, 117
    Kentish's (Linimentum terebinthinae), 148
    mercurial, 112
    mercurial, diluted, 112
    nutgall, 98
    of ammoniated mercury, 113
    of boric acid, 7
    of carbolic acid (Unguentum phenolis), 160
    of lead iodide, 166
    of mercuric nitrate, 111
    of phenol, 160
    of potassium iodide, 173
    of red mercuric oxide, 111
    of rose water, 186
    of tannic acid, 14
    of yellow mercuric oxide, 111
    of zinc oxide, 230
    of zinc stearate, 230
    petrolatum (Petrolatum), 158
    resorcinol, compound, 182
    simple (Unguentum), 15
    stramonium, 210
    sulphur, 215
    sulphur, alkaline, 215
    sulphur compound, 216
    tar, 165
    tar, compound, 146
    veratrine, 225
    white precipitate (Unguentum hydrargyri ammoniati), 113
    Wilkinson's (Unguentum sulphuris compositum), 216
    zinc (Unguentum zinci oxidi), 230

  Ointments, 223

  Olea infusa, 137

  Oleate of aconitine, 14
    of atropine, 36
    of cocaine, 67
    of mercury, 112
    of quinine, 177
    of veratrine, 225

  Oleates, 137

  Oleic acid, 11

  Oleo-balsamic mixture, 142

  Oleoresin of aspidium, 35
    of capsicum, 55
    of cubeb, 76
    of ginger, 232
    of lupulin, 127
    of male fern (Oleoresina aspidii), 35
    of parsley fruit, 159
    of pepper, 164

  Oleoresina petroselini, 159
    piperis, 164
    zingiberis, 232

  Oleoresins, 137

  Oleosacchara, 137

  Oleum
      See also under Oil.
    aethereum, 137
    amygdalae amarae, 137
    amygdalae expressum, 138
    aurantii, 138
    aurantii amari, 138
    aurantii corticis (Oleum aurantii), 138
    aurantii florum, 138
    bergamottae, 139
    betulae (Methylis salicylas), 133
    betulae empyreumaticum rectificatum, 139
    cari, 140
    caryophylli, 140
    foeniculi, 141
    gaultheriae (Methylis salicylas), 133
    gossypii seminis, 141
    Jecoris aselli (Oleum morrhuae), 144
    lini, 143
    menthae piperitae, 143
    menthae viridis, 143
    morrhuae, 144
    picis liquidae (Oleum picis liquidae rectificatum), 145
    picis liquidae rectificatum, 145
    pini pumilionis, 146
    ricini, 146
    ricini aromaticum, 146
    rusci rectificatum (Oleum betulae empyreumaticum rectificatum), 139
    sinapis volatile, 147
    terebinthinae, 147
    terebinthinae rectificatum, 147
    tiglii, 148

  Olive oil, 145

  Opium, 149
    and camphor pills, 151
    and chalk powder, aromatic, 151
    and chloroform mixture, compound, 150
    and copaiba mixture, 73
    and ipecac powder, 151
    and ipecac syrup, 151
    and ipecac tincture, 152
    and kino powder, compound, 122
    and kino tincture, compound, 122
    and lead lotion, 165
    and lead pills, 151
    and lead wash (Lotio plumbi et opii), 165
    and rhubarb mixture, compound, 150
    and sassafras mixture, 150
    deodorized, 151
    deodorized tincture, 152
    digitalis and quinine pills, 151
    extract, 149
    extract, powdered (Extractum opii), 149
    granulated, 151
    liniment, compound, 149
    magnesia, and asafetida mixture, 128
    powdered, 150
    tincture, 152
    tincture, camphorated, 152
    vinegar, 149
    with saffron tincture, 152

  Opodeldoc (Linimentum saponato-camphoratum), 190
    liquid (Linimentum saponis), 190
    solid (Linimentum saponato-camphoratum), 190

  Orange, elixir, compound (Vinum aurantii compositum), 36
    flower water, 37
    flower water, stronger, 37
    flowers, bitter, 37
    flowers oil, 138
    flowers syrup, 37
    oil, 138
    peel, bitter, 36
    peel, bitter, fluidextract, 36
    peel, bitter, tincture, 36
    peel, sweet, 36
    peel, sweet, tincture, 37
    spirit, compound, 138
    syrup, 36
    wine, compound, 36

  Ordeal bean (Physostigma), 161

  Oregon grape root (Berberis), 40

  Orphol (Bismuthi betanaphtholas), 41

  Orris, 119
    root (Iris), 119

  Ovi albumen recens, 152
    vitellum recens, 152

  Ovum gallinaceum, 153

  Oxgall, 85
    extract, 85
    extract, powdered (Extractum fellis bovis), 85

  Oxygen, 153

  Oxymel of Squill, 192


  Pale catechu (Gambir), 98
    catechu tincture, compound (Tinctura gambir composita), 98

  Pancreatic solution (Liquor pancreatini), 153

  Pancreatin, 153
    powder, compound, 153
    solution, 153

  Papaveris fructus, 153

  Papers, 60

  Papoose root (Caulophyllum), 59

  Paracoto, 153
    fluidextract, 154
    tincture, 154

  Paraffin, 154
    liquid (Petrolatum liquidum), 158

  Paraform (Paraformaldehydum), 154

  Paraformaldehyde, 154

  Paraldehyde, 154

  Paregoric (Tinctura opii camphorata), 152

  Pareira, 155
    brava (Pareira), 155
    fluidextract, 155

  Parrish's camphor mixture (Mistura camphorae aromatica), 142

  Parsley fruit, 159
    fruit, oleoresin, 159
    root, 159
    root, fluidextract, 159
    seed (Petroselinum), 159

  Pasque flower (Pulsatilla), 174

  Passion flower, 155
    flower tincture, 155
    vine (Passiflora), 155

  Paste, betanaphthol, 40
    dextrinated, 78
    Lassar's mild resorcinol (Pasta resorcinol mitis), 182
    Lassar's naphthol (Pasta betanaphtholis), 40
    Lassar's stronger resorcinol (Pasta resorcinolis fortis), 182
    Lassar's zinc (Pasta zinci), 229
    London (Soda cum calce), 198
    pencils, 209
    resorcinol, mild, 182
    resorcinol, strong, 182
    Unna's soft zinc (Pasta zinci mollis), 229
    Unna's sulphurated zinc (Pasta zinci sulphurata), 230
    zinc, 229
    zinc, soft, 229
    zinc, sulphurated, 230

  Pastes, dermatologic, 155

  Pearson's solution of sodium arsenate, 198

  Pectoral drops (Tinctura pectoralis), 153
    drops, Bateman's (Tinctura pectoralis), 152
    species, 22
    tincture, 152

  Pectoralis, syrupus (Syrupus morphinae et acaciae), 134

  Pelletierine tannate, 155

  Pellitory root (Pyrethrum), 175
    tincture (Tinctura pyrethri), 175

  Pencils, paste, 209
    Unna (Stili dilubiles), 209

  Pepo, 155

  Pepper, 164
    black (Piper), 164
    cayenne (Capsicum), 55
    oleoresin, 164

  Peppermint, 132
    essence (Spiritus menthae piperitae), 143
    oil, 143
    spirit, 143
    troches, 143
    water, 143

  Pepsin, 155
    and bismuth elixir, 156
    and iron elixir, 156
    and lime juice, 157
    and rennin elixir, compound, 156
    bismuth and strychnine elixir, 212
    cinchona alkaloids and iron elixir, 156
    elixir, 156
    glycerite, 157
    iron and calisaya, alkaloidal, elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et pepsini), 156
    saccharated, 157
    solution, 157
    solution, antiseptic, 157
    solution, aromatic, 157
    wine, 157

  Peptonate of iron and manganese solution, 95
    of iron solution, 94

  Peptonizing, powder (Pulvis pancreatini compositus), 153

  Perchloride of mercury (Hydrargyri chloridum corrosivum), 108

  Perfumed spirit, 139

  Peroxide, hydrogen (Hydrogenii dioxidum), 114

  Persio, 157

  Petrolatum, 158
    album, 158
    emulsion, 158
    liquid, 158
    ointment (Petrolatum), 158
    saponatum liquidum (Petroxolinum liquidum), 158
    saponatum spissum (Petroxolinum spissum), 159
    white, 158

  Petroleum benzin, purified, 39
    ether (Benzinum purificatum), 39
    jelly (Petrolatum), 158
    jelly, white (Petrolatum album), 158

  Petroselini radix, 159

  Petroselinum, 159

  Petrox, liquid (Petroxolinum liquidum), 158
    solid (Petroxolinum spissum), 159

  Petroxolin, liquid, 158
    solid, 159

  Petroxolins, 159

  Petroxolinum betanaphtholis, 41
    cadini, 139
    chloroformi camphoratum, 62
    creosoti, 75
    eucalyptolis, 83
    guaiacolis, 105
    hydrargyri, 112
    iodi, 118
    iodi dilutum, 118
    iodoformi, 117
    mentholis, 133
    methylis salicylatis, 133
    phenolis, 160
    phenolis camphoratum, 160
    picis, 145
    spissum, 159
    sulphuratum, 215
    sulphuratum compositum, 215
    terebinthinae laricis, 218

  Pheasant's eye (Adonis), 16

  Phenacetin (Acetphenetidinum), 6

  Phenazone (Antipyrina), 31

  Phenol, 159
    glycerite, 159
    iodatum, 160
    iodized, 160
    liquefied, 160
    ointment, 160
    petrox (Petroxolinum phenolis), 160
    petrox, camphorated (Petroxolinum phenolis camphoratum), 160

  Phenolated oil, 159
    solution of iodine, 118
    water, 159

  Phenolphthalein, 160
    troches, 160

  Phenyl salicylate, 160

  Phenylcinchoninic acid, 11

  Phenyldimethylpyrazolon (Antipyrina), 31

  Phenylis salicylas, 160

  Phenyl-quinoline-carboxylic acid (Acidum phenylcinchoninicum), 11

  Phosphate of lime with cod liver oil emulsion
      (Emulsum olei morrhuae cum calcii phosphate), 144
    of iron, quinine and strychnine, syrup of, 92
    quinine and strychnine syrup, 179
    solution, acid, 11
    solution, compound, 11
    syrup, compound, 11

  Phosphorated oil, 161

  Phosphates, acid solution of, 11

  Phosphoric acid, 11
    acid, diluted, 11

  Phosphorus, 161
    and nux vomica elixir, 161
    elixir, 161
    pills, 161
    solution, 161
    solution, Thompson's (Liquor phosphori), 161

  Physiological salt solution (Liquor sodii chloridi physiologicus), 202
    solution of sodium chloride, 202

  Physostigma, 161
    extract, 162
    extract, powdered (Extractum physostigmatis), 162
    tincture, 162

  Physostigmine salicylate, 162

  Phytolacca, 162
    fluidextract, 162

  Picric acid (Trinitrophenol), 222

  Pill, blue (Massa hydrargyri), 112
    bearing spurge (Euphorbia pilulifera), 84

  Pills, 163
    Aitken tonic (Pilulae ferri, quininae, strychninae et arseni mites),
      95
    antidyspeptic, 212
    antiperiodic, 180
    antiperiodic, without aloes, 180
    Barker's post partum (Pilulae laxativae post partum), 71
    bitter metallic
      (Pilulae ferri, quininae, strychninae et arseni fortiores), 95
    Blaud's (Pilulae ferri carbonatis), 86
    cathartic, compound, 71
    cathartic, vegetable, 71
    chalybeate (Pilulae ferri carbonatis), 86
    cochia (Pilulae colocynthidis compositae), 71
    dinner, 20
    dinner, Chapman's, 20
    dinner, Cole's, 20
    dinner, Hall's, 20
    dinner, Lady Webster's (Pilulae aloes et mastiches), 20
    ferruginous (Pilulae ferri carbonatis), 86
    Francis' triplex (Pilulae aloes, hydrargyri et scammonii compositae),
      21
    Guy's (Pilulae digitalis, scillae et hydrargyri), 79
    Janeway's (Pilulae aloes et podophylli compositae), 21
    laxative, compound, 22
    metallic (Pilulae ferri, quininae, strychninae et arseni fortiores),
      95
    Niemeyer, for dropsy (Pilulae digitalis, scillae et hydrargyri), 79
    Niemeyer, for phthisis (Pilulae opii, digitalis et quininae), 151
    of aloes, 20
    of aloes and asafetida, 20
    of aloes and iron, 20
    of aloes and mastic, 20
    of aloes and myrrh, 20
    of aloes and podophyllum, compound, 21
    of aloes, mercury and podophyllum, 21
    of aloes, mercury and scammony, compound, 21
    of aloin, compound, 22
    of aloin, strychnine and belladonna, 22
    of aloin, strychnine and belladonna, compound, 22
    of antimony, compound, 31
    of asafetida, 34
    of colocynth and hyoscyamus, 71
    of colocynth and podophyllum, 71
    of colocynth, compound, 71
    of digitalis, squill and mercury, 79
    of ferrous carbonate, 86
    of ferrous iodide, 90
    of glonoin (Pilulae glycerylis nitratis), 102
    of iron, quinine, aloes and nux vomica, 94
    of iron, quinine, strychnine and arsenic, mild, 95
    of iron, quinine, strychnine and arsenic, stronger, 95
    of nitroglycerin, 102
    of opium and camphor, 151
    of opium and lead, 151
    of opium, digitalis and quinine, 151
    of phosphorus, 161
    of rhubarb, 184
    of rhubarb, compound, 184
    Plummer's (Pilulae antimonii compositae), 31
    post partum laxative, 71
    quadruplex (Pilulae ferri, quinine, aloes et nucis vomicae), 94
    quatuor (Pilulae ferri, quininae, aloes et nucis vomicae), 94
    triplex (Pilulae aloes, hydrargyri et podophylli), 21
    Warburg's (Pilulae antiperiodicae), 180
    Warburg's, without aloes (Pilulae antiperiodicae sine aloe), 180

  Pilocarpine chloride (Pilocarpinae hydrochloridum), 162
    hydrochloride, 162
    nitrate, 163

  Pilocarpus, 163
    fluidextract, 163

  Pilulae
      See also under Pills.
    ad prandium, 20
    cocciae (Pilulae colocynthidis compositae), 71
    glycerylis nitratis, 102
    metallorum
      (Pilulae ferri, quininae, strychninae, et arseni fortiores), 95
    metallorum amarae
      (Pilulae ferri, quininae, strychninae et arseni fortiores), 95
    quadruplices (Pilulae ferri, quininae, aloes et nucis vomicae), 94
    triplices (Pilulae aloes, hydrargyri et podophylli), 21

  Pimento (Pimenta), 163
    oil (Oleum pimentae), 146

  Pimpernel root (Pimpinella), 164

  Pimpinella, 164
    tincture, 164

  Pine bark, white, 164
    needles, dwarf, oil, 146
    oil, dwarf (Oleum pini pumilionis), 146
    tar (Pix liquida), 164

  Pinkroot (Spigelia), 208
    fluidextract (Fluidextractum spigeliae), 208

  Pinus alba, 164

  Pipe gamboge (cambogia), 52

  Piper, 164

  Pipsissewa (Chimaphila), 60

  Pituitary body, desiccated (Hypophysis sicca), 116
    solution (Liquor hypophysis), 116

  Pix carbonis (Pix Lithanthracis), 165
    liquida, 164
    lithanthracis, 165

  Plaster, adhesive (Emplastrum resinae), 182
    adhesive, rubber (Emplastrum elasticum), 182
    belladonna, 38
    camphorated brown, 53
    cantharides, 54
    capsicum, 55
    diachylon (Emplastrum plumbi), 166
    lead, 166
    mustard, 197
    rosin, 182
    rosin adhesive (Emplastrum resinae), 182
    rubber, 182
    soap, 190

  Plasters, 82

  Pleurisy root (Asclepias), 35

  Plumbi acetas, 165
    carbonas, 166
    iodidum, 166
    oxidum, 166
    oxidum rubrum, 166
    subacetas, 167

  Plummer's pills (Pilulae antimonii compositae), 31

  Podophyllin (Resina Podophylli), 167

  Podophyllum, 167
    aloes and mercury pills, 21
    and aloes pills, compound, 21
    and colocynth pills, 71
    extract of, 167
    fluidextract, 167
    resin, 167

  Poison hemlock (Conium), 72
    tablets, 221
    tablets of corrosive mercuric chloride, 109

  Poke root (Phytolacca), 162

  Pomegranate, 103
    bark (Granatum), 103
    fluidextract, 103

  Poplar buds, balsam, 167

  Poppy capsules, 153
    syrup, 153

  Populi gemmae, 167

  Post partum laxative pills, 71
    partum pills, Barker's (Pilulae laxative post partum), 71

  Potassa, chlorinated, 167
    chlorinated, solution, 167
    cum calce, 172
    solution (Liquor potassii hydroxidi), 172
    sulphurated, 168
    with lime, 172

  Potassium acetate, 168
    acetate and buchu, elixir of, 44
    acetate and juniper elixir, 168
    acetate elixir, 168
    and sodium tartrate, 171
    arsenate, 168
    arsenate and bromides solution (Liquor arsenicalis clemens), 168
    arsenite, 168
    arsenite solution, 168
    bicarbonate, 169
    bitartrate, 169
    bitartrate and sulphur troches, 215
    bromide, 169
    bromide and chloral mixture,
    compound, 61
    bromide, effervescent salt, 170
    bromide, effervescent salt, compound, 170
    bromide elixir, 170
    bromide with caffeine, effervescent
      (Sal potassi bromidi effervescens compositus), 170
    carbonate, 170
    chlorate, 171
    chlorate troches, 171
    chloride, 171
    citrate, 171
    citrate, effervescent, 171
    citrate solution, 171
    hydrate (Potassii hydroxidum), 172
    hydroxide, 172
    hydroxide solution, 172
    hypophosphite, 172
    iodide, 172
    iodide and mercury, solution, 110
    iodide ointment, 173
    iodohydrargyrate solution (Liquor hydrargyri et potassii iodidi),
      110
    nitrate, 173
    nitrate paper, 173
    permanganate, 173
    sulphate, 173
    tartrate and antimony, 30

  Potio rivierii (Liquor sodii citratis), 202

  Poultices, 59

  Powder, acetanilid, compound, 6
    anise, compound (Pulvis rhei et magnesiae anisatus), 184
    antimonial, 30
    aromatic, 66
    chalk, compound, 76
    composition (Pulvis myricae compositus), 135
    Dover's (Pulvis ipecacuanhae et opii), 151
    Dover's syrup (Syrupus ipecacuanhae et opii), 151
    Dover's tincture (Tinctura ipecacuanhae et opii), 152
    gray (hydrargyrum cum creta), 112
    Gregory's (Pulvis rhei compositus), 184
    James' (Pulvis antimonialis), 30
    licorice, compound (Pulvis glycyrrhizae compositum), 194
    of aloes and canella, 21
    of bayberry compound, 135
    of chalk and opium, aromatic, 151
    of chalk, aromatic, 66
    of gambir, compound, 98
    of glycyrrhiza, compound, 194
    of ipecac and opium, 151
    of ipecac, compound (Pulvis ipecacuanhae et opii), 151
    of jalap, compound, 120
    of kino and opium, compound, 122
    of mild mercurous chloride and jalap, 110
    of rhubarb and magnesia, anisated, 184
    of rhubarb, compound, 184
    of talc, boro-salicylated (Pulvis talci compositus), 12
    of talc, compound, 12
    pancreatin compound, 153
    peptonizing (Pulvis pancreatini compositus), 153
    rubefacient spice, 57
    seidlitz (Pulvis effervescens compositus), 172
    soluble, antiseptic, 231

  Powdered compound extract of colocynth
      (Extractum colocynthidis compositum), 70
    extract of aconite (Extractum aconiti), 15
    extract of aloes (Extractum aloes), 20
    extract of cascara sagrada (Extractum cascarae sagradae), 57
    extract of cimicifuga (Extractum cimicifugae), 63
    extract of colchicum corm (Extractum colchici cormi), 69
    extract of colocynth (Extractum colocynthidis), 70
    extract of euonymus (Extractum euonymi), 84
    extract of gelsemium (Extractum gelsemii), 99
    extract of hydrastis (Extractum hydrastis), 114
    extract of ignatia (Extractum ignatiae), 116
    extract of krameria (Extractum krameriae), 122
    extract of leptandra (Extractum leptandrae), 124
    extract of nux vomica (Extractum nucis vomicae), 136
    extract of opium (Extractum opii), 149
    extract of oxgall (Extractum fellis bovis), 85
    extract of physostigma (Extractum physostigmatis), 162
    extract of quassia (Extractum quassiae), 176
    extract of rhubarb (Extractum rhei), 183
    extract of viburnum prunifolium (Extractum viburni prunifolii), 227
    opium, 150

  Powders, 175

  Precipitated calcium carbonate, 46
    calcium phosphate, 50
    chalk (Calcii carbonas praecipitatus), 46
    ferrous sulphate (Ferri sulphas granulatus), 94
    manganese dioxide, 130
    sulphur, 215
    zinc carbonate, 229

  Prepared cacao (Cacao praeparata), 44
    calamine, 46
    chalk, 75
    suet, 197

  Prickly ash bark (Xanthoxylum), 228
    ash berries, 228
    ash, fluidextract (Fluidextractum xanthoxyli), 228

  Protochloride of iron solution (Liquor ferri protochloridi), 92
    of iron syrup (Syrupus ferri protochloridi), 92
    of mercury (Hydrargyri chloridum mite), 109

  Protoiodide of mercury (Hydrargyri iodidum flavum), 110

  Prune, 174

  Prunus virginiana, 174

  Prussic acid, diluted (Acidum hydrocyanicum dilutum), 9

  Pulsatilla, 174
    tincture, 175

  Pulveres, 175

  Pulvis
      See also under Powder.
    aloes et canellae, 21
    antisepticus, 231
    antisepticus solubilis (Pulvis antisepticus), 231
    aromaticus rubefaciens, 57
    catechu compositus (Pulvis gambir compositus), 98
    cretae aromaticus, 66
    cretae compositus, 76
    cretae et opii aromaticus, 151
    effervescens compositus, 172
    gambir compositus, 98
    glycyrrhizae compositus, 194
    hydrargyri chloridi mitis et jalapae, 110
    myricae compositus, 135
    potassii bromidi effervescens (Sal potassii bromidi effervescens),
      170
    potassii bromidi effervescens cum caffeina
      (Sal potassii bromidi effervescens compositus), 170
    purgans (Pulvis jalapae compositus), 120
    salis carolini factitii effervescens, 207
    salis kissingensis factitii effervescens
      (Sal kissingense factitium effervescens), 202
    salis vichyani factitii effervescens
      (Sal vichyanum factitium effervescens), 200
    salis vichyani factitii effervescens cum lithio
      (Sal vichyanum factitium effervescens cum lithio), 200

  Pumice, 175

  Pumpkin seed (Pepo), 155

  Pure extract of glycyrrhiza, 102

  Purgans, pulvis (Pulvis jalapae compositus), 120

  Purging cassia (Cassia fistula), 58

  Purified antidiphtheric serum, 196
    antitetanic serum, 196
    cotton, 103
    infusorial earth (Terra silicea purificata), 219
    kieselguhr (Terra silicea purificata), 219
    petroleum benzin, 39
    siliceous earth, 219
    talc, 217

  Pyrethrum, 175
    tincture, 175

  Pyrogallic acid (Pyrogallol), 175

  Pyrogallol, 175

  Pyroxylin, 175


  Quadruplex pills (Pilulae ferri, quininae, aloes et nucis vomicae), 94

  Quassia, 176
    extract, 176
    extract, powdered (Extractum quassiae), 176
    fluidextract, 176
    tincture, 176

  Quatuor pills (Pilulae ferri, quininae, aloes et nucis vomicae), 94

  Quebracho (Aspidosperma), 35
    fluidextract (Fluidextractum aspidospermatis), 35

  Queen's root (Stillingia), 209

  Quercus, 176
    fluidextract, 176

  Quevenne's iron (Ferrum reductum), 95

  Quicklime (Calx), 52

  Quicksilver (Hydrargyrum), 112

  Quillaja, 176
    tincture, 177

  Quinidine, 177
    syrup, 177
    syrup, bitterless (Syrupus quinidinae), 177

  Quinine, 177
    aloes, iron and nux vomica pills, 94
    and urea chloride (Quininae et ureae hydrochloridum), 178
    and urea hydrochloride, 178
    bisulphate, 177
    bromide (Quininae hydrobromidum), 178
    chloride (Quininae, hydrochloridum), 179
    citrate and iron, 88
    citrate and iron, soluble (Ferri et quininae citras), 88
    dihydrochloride, 178
    ferric pyrophosphate and strychnine elixir, 93
    glycerinophosphate (Quininae glycerophosphas), 178
    glycerophosphate, 178
    hydrobromide, 178
    hydrochloride, 179
    hypophosphite, 179
    iron and strychnine, syrup of the phosphates of, 92
    oleate, 177
    opium and digitalis pills, 151
    salicylate, 179
    strychnine and iron elixir, 87
    strychnine and phosphates syrup, 179
    strychnine, iron and arsenic pills, mild, 95
    strychnine, iron and arsenic pills, stronger, 95
    sulphate, 179
    tannate, 181
    tannate troches, 181
    valerate, 181
    valerate and strychnine elixir, 181


  Raspberries, 186

  Raspberry syrup, 186

  Raw linseed oil (Oleum lini), 143

  Rectified empyroligneous oil of birch
      (Oleum betulae empyreumaticum rectificatum), 139
    oil of birch tar, 139
    oil of tar, 145
    oil of turpentine, 147
    tar oil (Oleum picis liquidae rectificatum), 145
    turpentine oil (Oleum terebinthinae rectificatum), 147

  Red aromatic elixir, 19
    cinchona, 65
    clover blossoms (Trifolium), 222
    elixir (Elixir aromaticum rubrum), 19
    indigo (Persio), 157
    iodide of mercury (Hydrargyri iodidum rubrum), 110
    lead (Plumbi oxidum rubrum), 166
    mercuric iodide, 110
    mercuric oxide, 111
    mercuric oxide, ointment, 111
    oxide of lead, 166
    peruvian bark (Cinchona rubra), 65
    precipitate (Hydrargyri oxidum rubrum), 111
    rose, 186
    Saunders, 189

  Reduced iron, 95

  Refined and concentrated diphtheria antitoxin
      (Serum antidiphthericum purificatum), 196
    and concentrated tetanus antitoxin (Serum antitetanicum purificatum),
      196

  Rennin, 181
    and pepsin elixir, compound, 156

  Replacing elixir curassao (Elixir aurantii amari), 138
    emplastrum aromaticum (Pulvis aromaticus rubefaciens), 57

  Resin of jalap, 120
    of podophyllum, 167
    of scammony, 192

  Resins, 182

  Resorcin (Resorcinol), 182
    resorcinol, 182
    ointment, compound, 182
    paste, Lassar's mild (Pasta resorcinolis mitis), 182
    paste, Lassar's, stronger (Pasta resorcinolis fortis), 182
    paste, strong, 182

  Rhamnus cathartica, 182
    cathartica fluidextract, 183
    cathartica syrup, 183
    purshiana (Cascara sagrada), 57

  Rhatany (Krameria), 122

  Rheum, 183

  Rhubarb, 183
    and gentian tincture, 185
    and magnesia powder, anisated, 184
    and opium mixture, compound, 150
    and soda mixture (Mistura rhei composita), 183
    extract, 183
    extract, powdered (Extractum rhei), 183
    fluidextract, 183
    fluidglycerate, 183
    mixture, alkaline, 183
    mixture, compound, 183
    pills, compound, 184
    powder, compound, 184
    syrup, 184

  Rhubarb syrup, aromatic, 184
    syrup, spiced (Syrupus rhei aromaticus), 184
    tincture, 184
    tincture, aqueous, 184
    tincture, aromatic, 184
    tincture, sweet, 185
    wine, compound, 185

  Rhus glabra, 185
    glabra, fluidextract, 185

  Roasted coffee (Coffea tosta), 69

  Rochelle salt (Potassii et sodii tartrate), 171

  Rock-rose (Helianthemum), 107

  Root (Bryonia), 44

  Rosa centifolia (Rosa), 185
    gallica, 186

  Rose, 185
    confection, 185
    fluidextract, 186
    honey, 132
    honey and sodium borate, 200
    honey with borax (Mel rosae et sodii boratis), 200
    infusion, compound, 186
    syrup, 186
    water, 185
    water ointment, 186
    water, stronger, 185

  Rosemary oil, 146

  Rosin, 181
    adhesive plaster (Emplastrum resinae), 182
    cerate, 181
    cerate compound, 182
    plaster, 182

  Rubber adhesive plaster (Emplastrum elasticum), 182
    plaster, 182

  Rubefacient spice powder, 57

  Rubi fructus, 186
    idaei fructus, 186

  Rubus, 186
    fluidextract, 187
    syrup, 187

  Rumex, 187
    fluidextract, 187

  Russian flies (Cantharis), 54

  Rye, ergot, 82
    spurred, 82


  Sabal, 187
    fluidextract, 187

  Saccharated ferric oxide, 91
    ferrous carbonate, 86
    iron, soluble, syrup, 91
    oxide of iron, syrup (Syrupus ferri saccharati solubilis), 91
    pepsin, 157

  Saccharin (Benzosulphinidum), 40
    soluble (Sodii benzosulphinidum), 199

  Saccharum lactis, 188
    ustum (Caramel), 55

  Saffron (Crocus), 76
    tincture, 76
    with opium tincture, 152

  Saigon cinnamon, 66

  St. Germain tea (Species laxativae), 195

  St. Ignatius bean (Ignatia), 116

  St. John Long's liniment (Linimentum terebinthinae aceticum), 148

  Sal carolinum factitium, 207
    carolinum factitium effervescens, 207
    Kissingense factitium, 202
    Kissingense factitium effervescens, 202
    lithii citratis effervescens, 126
    potassii bromidi effervescens, 170
    potassii bromidi effervescens compositus, 170
    Vichyanum factitium, 199
    Vichyanum factitium effervescens, 200
    Vichyanum factitium effervescens cum lithio, 200

  Sales effervescentes, 188

  Salicin, 188

  Salicylated creosote mull, 12
    mixture of iron (Liquor ferri salicylatis), 206

  Salicylic acid, 12
    acid glycerogelatin, 12
    acid mull, 12
    acid pencil, 12
    collodion, compound, 12

  Salol (Phenylis salicylas), 160

  Salt, artificial carlsbad, 207
    artificial Carlsbad, effervescent, 207
    Glauber's (Sodii sulphas), 206
    of lithium citrate, effervescent, 126
    of potassium bromide, effervescent, 170
    of potassium bromide, effervescent, compound, 170
    rochelle (Potassii et sodii tartras), 171
    solution, normal (Liquor sodii chloridi physiologicus), 202
    solution, physiological (Liquor sodii chloridi physiologicus), 202

  Saltpetre (Potassi nitras), 173

  Salts, granular effervescent, 188

  Salve, Deshler's (Ceratum resinae compositum), 182
    mother's (Unguentum fuscum), 53

  Sambucus, 188

  Sandal wood, 189
    oil (Oleum santali), 146
    white (Santalum album), 189

  Sanguinaria, 189
    fluidextract, 189
    syrup, 189
    tincture, 189

  Santal and saw palmetto tincture, 187
    oil, 146

  Santalum album, 189
    rubrum, 189

  Santalwood oil (Oleum santali), 146

  Santonin, 189
    and calomel troches (Trochisci santonini compositi), 190
    troches, 189
    troches, compound, 190

  Sapo, 190
    mollis, 190

  Sarsaparilla, 191
    decoction, compound, 191
    fluidextract, 191
    root (Sarsaparilla), 191
    syrup, compound, 191

  Sassafras, 191
    and opium mixture, 150
    medulla, 191
    oil, 147
    pith, 191
    pith, mucilage, 191

  Saw palmetto and santal tincture, 187
    palmetto berries (Sabal), 187
    palmetto, fluidextract (Fluidextractum sabal), 187

  Scammony, aloes and mercury pills, compound, 21
    resin, 192
    root, 192

  Scilla, 192

  Scoparius, 193
    fluidextract, 193

  Scopolamine bromide (Scopolaminae hydrobromidum), 193
    hydrobromide, 193

  Scutellaria, 193
    fluidextract, 193

  Secale cornutum (Ergota), 82

  Sedative water (Lotio ammoniacalis camphorata), 25

  Seidlitz powder (Pulvis effervescens compositus), 172

  Seneca snakeroot (Senega), 194

  Senecio, 193
    fluidextract, 194

  Senega, 194
    fluidextract, 194
    snakeroot (Senega), 194
    syrup, 194

  Senna, 194
    Alexandria, or Indian senna (Senna), 194
    confection, 194
    fluidextract, 194
    infusion, compound, 194
    India, or Alexandria senna (Senna), 194
    syrup, 195
    syrup, aromatic, 195
    syrup, compound, 195

  Serpentaria, 195
    tincture, 195

  Serum, antidiphtheric, 196
    antidiphtheric, dried, 196
    antidiphtheric, purified, 196
    antitetanic, 196
    antitetanic, dried, 197
    antitetanic, purified, 196
    fluidextract, 195

  Sesame oil, 147

  Seven-barks (Hydrangea), 108

  Sevum benzoinatum, 197
    praeparatum, 197

  Sherry wine, 227

  Short buchu, 44

  Siliceous earth, purified, 219

  Silver nitrate, 32
    nitrate, fused (Argenti nitras fusus), 33
    nitrate, molded, 33
    oxide, 33

  Simple cerate (Ceratum), 59
    elixir (Elixir aromaticum), 18
    ointment (Unguentum), 15
    syrup (Syrupus), 188

  Sinapis alba, 197
    nigra, 197

  Sirup (Syrupus), 188

  Skullcap (Scutellaria), 193

  Slippery elm (Ulmus), 223

  Smallpox vaccine (Virus vaccinicum), 227

  Smith's solution of bromine (Liquor bromi), 43

  Smyrna galls (Galla), 98

  Snake-root, black (Cimicifuga), 63
    Canada (Asarum), 34
    black, fluidextract (Fluidextractum cimicifuga), 63
    Texas (Serpentaria), 195
    Virginia (Serpentaria), 195

  Soap, 190
    green, tincture (Linimentum saponis mollis), 190
    liniment, 190
    liniment, camphorated, 190
    plaster, 190
    soft, 190
    soft, liniment, 190
    soft, liniment, compound, 190
    white castile (Sapo), 190

  Soap-tree bark (Quillaja), 176

  Soda and mint solution, 199
    and rhubarb mixture (Mistura rhei composita), 183
    baking (Sodii bicarbonas), 199
    caustic (Sodii hydroxidum), 203
    chlorinata, 197
    cum calce, 198
    mint (Liquor sodae et Menthae), 199
    solution (Liquor sodii hydroxidi), 204
    with lime, 198

  Sodio-benzoate, caffeine, 45

  Sodio-salicylate, caffeine, 45

  Sodium acetate, 198
    and calcium glycerophosphates elixir, 47
    and calcium hypophosphites syrup, 48
    arsenate, 198
    arsenate, exsiccated, 198
    arsenate solution, 198
    arsenate solution, Pearson's, 198
    benzoate, 198
    benzosulphinide, 199
    bicarbonate, 199
    bicarbonate troches, 200
    borate, 200
    borate and rose honey, 200
    borate honey, 200
    borate solution, compound, 200
    boro-benzoate, 201
    bromide, 201
    bromide elixir, 201
    cacodylate, 201
    carbonate, monohydrated, 201
    chloride, 201
    chloride and gold, 37
    chloride, physiological solution, 202
    citrate, 202
    citrate and manganese (Mangani citras solubilis), 130
    citrate solution, 202
    citro-tartrate, effervescent solution, 202
    cyanide, 202
    glycerinophosphate (Sodii glycerophosphas), 203
    glycerophosphate, 203
    glycerophosphate solution, 203
    hydrate (Sodii hydroxidum), 203
    hydroxide, 203
    hydroxide solution, 204
    hypophosphite, 204
    hypophosphite elixir, 204
    hypophosphite syrup, 204
    hyposulphite (Sodii thiosulphas), 207
    indigotindisulphonate, 204
    iodide, 204
    nitrate, 204
    perborate, 205
    phenolsulphonate, 205
    phosphate, 205
    phosphate, effervescent, 206
    phosphate, exsiccated, 205
    phosphate solution, compound, 205
    pyroborate (Sodii boras), 200
    saccharin (Sodii benzosulphinidum), 199
    salicylate, 206
    salicylate elixir, 206
    salicylate elixir, compound, 206
    sulphate, 206
    sulphite, exsiccated, 207
    sulphocarbolate (Sodii phenolsulphonas), 205
    tartrate and bismuth, 41
    tartrate and potassium, 171
    tetraborate (Sodii boras), 200
    thiosulphate, 207

  Soft soap, 190
    soap liniment, 190
    soap liniment, compound, 190
    zinc glycerogelatin, 229
    zinc paste, 229
    zinc paste, Unna's, (Pasta zinci mollis), 229

  Solanum, 207
    fluidextract, 208

  Solid extracts (Extracta), 85
    opodeldoc (Linimentum saponato-camphoratum), 190
    petrox (Petroxolinum spissum), 159

  Solidified copaiba (Massa copaibae), 73

  Soluble antiseptic powder, 231
    cocoa (Cacao praeparata), 44
    ferric citrate (Ferri et ammonii citras), 87
    ferric oxide (Ferri oxidum saccharatum), 91
    ferric phosphate (Ferric phosphas), 91
    ferric pyrophosphate (Ferri pyrophosphas), 92
    gun cotton (Pyroxylinum), 175
    iron and quinine citrate (Ferri et quininae citras), 88
    manganese citrate, 130
    manganese glycerophosphate, 130
    manganous glycerinophosphate (Mangani glycerophosphas solubilis),
      130
    oxide of iron syrup (Syrupus ferri saccharati solubilis), 91
    saccharated iron syrup, 91
    saccharin (Sodii benzosulphinidum), 199

  Solution
      See also under Liquor
    antiseptic, 7
    antiseptic, alkaline, 169
    Boulton's (Liquor iodi phenolatus), 118
    Burow's (Liquor, alumini acetatis), 23
    Channing's (Liquor hydrargyri et potassii iodidi), 110
    coal tar, 165
    deodorant (Liquor zinci et ferri compositus), 231
    Dobell's (Liquor Sodii boratis compositus), 200
    Donovan's (Liquor arseni et hydrargyri iodidi), 33
    Fleming's (Liquor calcis sulphuratae), 51
    Fowler's (Liquor potassi arsenitis), 168
    hydrastine, colorless (Liquor hydrastinae compositus), 113
    hydrochloric, of arsenic, 34
    Labarraque's (Liquor sodae chlorinatae), 197
    Lugol's (Liquor iodi compositus), 118
    Monsel's (Liquor ferri subsulphatis), 93
    normal salt (Liquor sodii chloridi physiologicus), 202
    of acid phosphates (Liquor phosphatum acidus), 11
    of albuminate of iron, 94
    of aluminum acetate, 23
    of aluminum acetico-tartrate, 24
    of aluminum subacetate, 24
    of ammonia, anisated (Spiritus ammoniae anisatus), 25
    of ammonium acetate, 25
    of ammonium citrate, 27
    of arsenic chloride (Liquor acidi arsenosi), 34
    of arsenic, Clemens', 168
    of arsenous acid (Liquor acidi arsenosi), 34
    of arsenous and mercuric iodide, 33
    of basic ferric sulphate (Liquor subsulphatis), 93
    of bismuth, 42
    of bromine, 43
    of bromine, Smith's (Liquor bromi), 43
    of calcium hydroxide, 52
    of carmine, 56
    of chlorinated potassa, 167
    of chlorinated soda, 197
    of chlorine, compound, 62
    of cresol, compound, 75
    of ferric acetate, 85
    of ferric chloride, 86
    of ferric citrate, 87
    of ferric hypophosphite, 89
    of ferric nitrate, 91
    of ferric oxychloride, 91
    of ferric oxysulphate, 91
    of ferric salicylate, 206
    of ferric subsulphate, 93
    of ferric sulphate, 94
    of ferrous chloride, 92
    of formaldehyde, 96
    of glycerophosphates, compound (Elixir glycerophosphatum compositum),
      203
    of gold and arsenic bromide, 7
    of gutta percha, 106
    of hydrastine, compound, 113
    of hydrogen dioxide, 115
    of hydrogen peroxide (Liquor hydrogenii dioxidi), 115
    of hypophosphite of iron (Liquor ferri hypophosphitis), 89
    of hypophosphites, 48
    of hypophosphites, compound, 48
    of hypophysis, 116
    of iodine, carbolized (Liquor iodi phenolatus), 118
    of iodine, compound, 118
    of iodine, phenolated, 118
    of iron and ammonium acetate, 25
    of iron perchloride (Liquor ferri chloridi), 86
    of iron tersulphate (Liquor ferri tersulphatis), 94
    of lead subacetate, 167
    of lead subacetate, diluted, 167
    of magnesium citrate, 128
    of magnesium sulphate, effervescent, 129
    of mercuric nitrate, 110
    of mercury and potassium iodide, 110
    of oxysulphuret of calcium (Liquor calcis sulphuratae), 51
    of pancreatin, 153
    of pepsin, 157
    of pepsin, antiseptic, 157
    of pepsin, aromatic, 157
    of peptonate of iron, 94
    of peptonate of iron and manganese, 95
    of phosphates, acid, 11
    of phosphates, compound, 11
    of phosphorus, 161
    of pituitary body (Liquor hypophysis), 116
    of potassa (Liquor potassii hydroxidi), 172
    of potassium arsenate and bromides (Liquor arsenicalis Clemens), 168
    of potassium citrate, 171
    of potassium hydroxide, 172
    of potassium iodohydrargyrate (Liquor hydrargyri et potassii iodidi),
      110
    of protochloride of iron (Liquor ferri protochloridi), 92
    of phosphorus, Thompson's (Liquor phosphori), 161
    of soda (Liquor sodii hydroxidi), 204
    of soda and mint, 199
    of sodium arsenate, 198
    of sodium arsenate, Pearson's, 198
    of sodium borate, compound, 200
    of sodium chloride, physiological, 202
    of sodium citrate, 202
    of sodium citro-tartrate, effervescent, 202
    of sodium glycerophosphate, 203
    of sodium hydroxide, 204
    of sodium phosphate, compound, 205
    of strychnine acetate, 212
    of strychnine, Hall's (Liquor strychninae acetatis), 212
    of sulphurated lime, 51
    of tar, alkaline, 165
    of zinc and aluminum, compound, 230
    of zinc and iron, compound, 231
    of zinc chloride, 229
    physiological salt (Liquor sodii chloridi physiologicus), 202
    Vleminckx' (Liquor calcis sulphuratae), 51

  Solutions, 125

  Spanish flies (Cantharis), 54

  Sparteine sulphate, 208

  Spearmint, 132
    oil, 143
    spirit, 143
    water, 143

  Species, 208
    ad infusum pectorale (Species pectorales), 22
    emollientes, 23
    laxativae, 195
    pectorales, 22

  Spermaceti, 60

  Spice powder, rubefacient, 57

  Spiced syrup of rhubarb (Syrupus rhei aromaticus), 184

  Spigelia, 208
    fluidextract, 208

  Spignet (Aralia), 32

  Spirit of ammonia, anisated, 25
    of anise, 138
    of ants (Spiritus acidi formici), 8
    of bitter almond, 138
    of camphor, 53
    of cardamon, compound, 140
    of chloroform, 62
    of cinnamon, 140
    of ether, 16
    of ether, compound, 16
    of formic acid, 8
    of glonoin (Spiritus glycerylis nitratis), 102
    of glyceryl trinitrate, 102
    of juniper, 142
    of juniper, compound, 142
    of lavender, 142
    of lavender, compound (Tinctura lavandulae composita), 142
    of mindererus (Liquor ammonii acetatis), 25
    of mustard, 147
    of myrcia, compound, 145
    of nitre, sweet (Spiritus aetheris nitrosi), 17
    of nitroglycerin (Spiritus glycerylis nitratis), 102
    of nitrous ether, 17
    of orange, compound, 138
    of peppermint, 143
    of spearmint, 143
    of vanillin, compound, 224

  Spirits, 208
    of turpentine (Oleum terebinthinae), 147
    of volatile oils, 208

  Spiritus amygdalae amarae, 138
    aurantii compositus, 138
    glycerylis nitratis, 102
    menthae piperitae, 143
    menthae viridis, 143
    odoratus, 139
    sinapis, 147
    vanillini compositus, 224

  Spray, eucalyptol, 83
    menthol, 133
    menthol, compound, 133

  Sprays, 136

  Spurred rye (Ergota), 82

  Squaw root (Caulophyllum), 59

  Squibb's diarrhea mixture (Mistura opii et chloroformi composita), 150

  Squill, 192
    fluidextract, 192
    mercury and digitalis pills, 79
    oxymel, 192
    syrup, 192
    syrup, compound, 192
    tincture, 192
    vinegar, 192

  Squirrel corn (Corydalis), 74

  Staphisagria, 209
    fluidextract, 209

  Star anise oil, 138
    grass (Aletris), 19

  Starch, 29
    glycerite, 29

  Stavesacre (Staphisagria), 209
    fluidextract (Fluidextractum staphisagria), 209

  Stearic acid, 13

  Sterilized distilled water, 32

  Stili acidi salicylici dilubiles, 12
    dilubiles, 209

  Stillingia, 209
    fluidextract, 209
    fluidextract, compound, 209
    syrup, compound, 209

  Stokes' expectorant, 26
    liniment (Linimentum terebinthinae aceticum), 148

  Stomach drops (Tinctura amara), 100

  Storax, 214
    liquid (Styrax), 214

  Stramonium, 210
    extract, 210
    fluidextract, 210
    ointment, 210
    tincture, 210

  Strong resorcinol paste, 182

  Stronger ammonia water, 25
    orange flower water, 37
    pills of iron, quinine, strychnine and arsenic, 95
    resorcinol, paste, Lassar's (Pasta resorcinolis fortis), 182
    rose water, 185
    tincture of iodine, 119

  Strontium bromide, 210
    carbonate, 210
    iodide, 210
    salicylate, 211

  Strophanthin, 211

  Strophanthus, 211
    tincture, 211

  Strychni semen (Nux vomica), 136
    tinctura (Tinctura nucis vomicae), 137

  Strychnine, 212
    acetate, 212
    acetate solution, 212
    and quinine valerate elixir, 181
    belladonna and aloin pills, 22
    belladonna and aloin pills, compound, 22
    calisaya alkaloidal, and iron elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri et strychninae), 213
    cinchona alkaloids, and iron elixir, 213
    cinchona alkaloids, iron and bismuth elixir, 213
    ferric pyrophosphate, and quinine, elixir, 93
    glycerinophosphate (Strychninae glycerophosphas), 212
    glycerophosphate, 212
    iron and quinine elixir, 87
    iron and quinine, syrup of the phosphates of, 92
    iron, quinine and arsenic pills, stronger, 95
    iron, calisaya, alkaloidal, and bismuth, elixir
      (Elixir cinchonae alkaloidorum, ferri, bismuthi et strychninae),
      213
    nitrate, 213
    pepsin, and bismuth elixir, 212
    quinine and phosphates syrup, 179
    quinine, iron and arsenic pills, mild, 95
    solution, Hall's (Liquor strychninae acetatis), 212
    sulphate, 213
    valerate, 213
    valerate elixir, 214

  Styptic collodion, 13
    cotton, 86

  Stypticin (Cotarninae hydrochloridum), 74

  Styrax, 214

  Subchloride of mercury (Hydrargyri chloridum mite), 109

  Sublimed sulphur, 215

  Succus citri, 214
    citri et pepsinum, 157
    limettae cum pepsino (Succus citri et pepsinum), 157
    pomorum, 214

  Sucrose (Saccharum), 187

  Suet, benzoinated, 197
    mutton (Sevum praeparatum), 197
    prepared, 197

  Sugar, 187
    of lead (Plumbi acetas), 165
    of milk, 188

  Sulphocarbolate zinc (Zinci phenolsulphonas), 230

  Sulphonal (Sulphonmethanum), 214

  Sulphonethylmethane, 214

  Sulphonmethane, 214

  Sulphur and cream of tartar troches
      (Trochisci sulphuris et potassii bitartratis), 215
    and potassium bitartrate troches, 215
    flowers (Sulphur sublimatum), 215
    iodide, 216
    liver (Potassa sulphurata), 168
    lotum, 215
    milk (Sulphur praecipitatum), 215
    ointment, 215
    ointment, alkaline, 215
    ointment, compound, 216
    precipitated, 215
    sublimed, 215
    washed, 215

  Sulphurated antimony, 30
    lime (Calcii sulphidum crudum), 50
    lime solution, 51
    petrox (Petroxolinum sulphuratum), 215
    petrox, compound (Petroxolinum sulphuratum compositum), 215
    potassa, 168
    zinc paste, 230
    zinc paste, Unna's (Pasta zinci sulphurata), 230

  Sulphuric acid, 13
    aromatic, 13
    diluted, 13

  Sumac berries (Rhus glabra), 185

  Sumbul, 216
    extract, 216
    fluidextract, 216
    tincture, 216

  Sun cholera mixture (Mistura opii et rhei composita), 150

  Sundew (Drosera), 80

  Suppositories, 216
    of boroglycerin, 101
    of glycerin, 101

  Suprarenal glands, desiccated (Suprarenalum siccum), 216
    dried, 216

  Sweet almond (Amygdala dulcis), 28
    almond oil (Oleum amygdalae expressum), 138
    bark (Cascarilla), 58
    birch oil (Methylis salicylas), 133
    clover, yellow (Melilotus), 132
    orange oil (Oleum aurantii), 138
    orange peel, 36
    orange peel, tincture, 37
    spirit of nitre (Spiritus aetheris nitrosi), 17
    tincture of rhubarb, 185

  Sweetwood bark (Cascarilla), 58

  Sydenham's laudanum (Tinctura opii crocata), 152

  Syrup, 188
    hive (Syrupus scillae compositus), 192
    Jackson's pectoral (Syrupus morphinae et acaciae), 134
    of acacia, 5
    of actaea, compound (Syrupus cimicifugae compositus), 64
    of althaea, 22
    of ammonium hypophosphite, 27
    of asarum, compound, 34
    of blackberry fruit, 186
    of bloodroot (Syrupus sanguinariae), 189
    of buckthorn berries (Syrupus rhamni cathartica), 183
    of calcium and sodium hypophosphites, 48
    of calcium hydrochlorophosphate, 50
    of calcium hypophosphite, 48
    of calcium iodide, 49
    of calcium lactophosphate, 50
    of calcium lactophosphate and iron, 50
    of cimicifuga, compound, 64
    of cinnamon, 66
    of citric acid, 8
    of codeine, 68
    of Dover's powder (Syrupus ipecacuanhae et opii), 151
    of eriodictyon, aromatic, 83
    of ferric hypophosphite, 89
    of ferrous chloride, 92
    of ferrous iodide, 90
    of figs, compound, 195
    of garlic, 19
    of ginger, 232
    of glycyrrhiza, 103
    of hydriodic acid, 9
    of hydrochlorophosphates, compound
      (Syrupus phosphatum cum quinina et strychnina), 179
    of hypophosphites, 48
    of hypophosphites, compound, 49
    of iodotannin, 118
    of ipecac, 119
    of ipecac and opium, 151
    of iron and manganese iodide, 90
    of iron lactophosphate, 90
    of krameria, 123
    of lactucarium, 123
    of licorice (Syrupus glycyrrhizae), 103
    of manna, 131
    of morphine and acacia, 134
    of orange, 36
    of orange flowers, 37
    of phosphates, compound, 11
    of phosphates with quinine and strychnine, 179
    of poppy, 153
    of protochloride of iron (Syrupus ferri protochloridi), 92
    of quinine, 177
    of quinidine, bitterless (Syrupus quinidinae), 177
    of raspberry, 186
    of rhamnus cathartica, 183
    of rhubarb, aromatic, 184
    of rhubarb, spiced (Syrupus rhei aromaticus), 184
    of rose, 186
    of rubus, 187
    of saccharated oxide of iron (Syrupus ferri saccharati solubilis),
      91
    of sanguinaria, 189
    of sarsaparilla, compound, 191
    of senega, 194
    of senna, 195
    of senna, compound, 195
    of sodium hypophosphite, 204
    of soluble oxide of iron (Syrupus ferri saccharati solubilis), 91
    of soluble saccharated iron, 91
    of squill, 192
    of squill, compound, 192
    of stillingia, compound, 209
    of tar, 165
    of the bromides, 170
    of the phosphates of iron, quinine and strychnine, 92
    of tolu, 37
    of white pine, compound, 164
    of white pine with morphine, compound, 135
    of wild cherry, 174
    of yerba santa, aromatic (Syrupus eriodictyi aromaticus), 83
    simple (Syrupus), 188

  Syrups, 217

  Syrupus
      See also under Syrup
    allii, 19
    aurantii, 36
    aurantii florum, 37
    bromidorum, 170
    corrigens (Syrupus eriodictyi aromaticus), 83
    ferri oxydati solubilis (Syrupus ferri saccharati solubilis), 91
    ferri protochloridi, 92
    ferri, quininae et strychninae phosphatum, 92
    ferri saccharati solubilis, 91
    papaveris, 153
    pectoralis (Syrupus morphinae et acaciae), 134
    phosphatum compositum, 11
    phosphatum cum quinina et strychnina
      (See under Quininae hydrochloridum), 12
    phosphatum cum quininae et strychnina, 179
    picis liquidae, 165
    pini strobi compositus, 164
    pini strobi compositus (Syrupus pini strobi compositus cum morphina),
      135
    pini strobi compositus cum morphina, 135
    pruni virginianae, 174
    rhei et potassii compositus (Mistura rhei alkalina), 183
    rubi, 187
    rubi fructi, 186
    rubi idaei, 186
    scillae, 192
    spinae cervinae (Syrupus rhamni catharticae), 183
    stillingiae compositus, 209
    zingiberis, 232

  Syrupy glucose (Glucosum), 101


  Talc, boro-salicylated powder (Pulvis talci compositus), 12
    powder, compound, 12
    purified, 217

  Tamarind, 217

  Tannic acid, 13
    glycerite, 13
    ointment, 14
    troches, 13

  Tannin (Acidum tannicum), 13
    glycerite (Glyceritum acidii tannici), 13

  Tar, 164
    birch, rectified oil, 139
    coal, 165
    glycerite, 165
    mixture (Mistura olei picis), 145
    oil, mixture, 145
    oil, rectified (Oleum picis liquidae rectificatum), 145
    ointment, 165
    ointment, compound, 146
    petrox (Petroxolinum picis), 145
    pine (Pix liquida), 164
    solution, alkaline, 165
    solution, coal, 165
    syrup, 165
    wine, 165

  Taraxacum, 217
    elixir, compound, 217
    extract, 218
    fluidextract, 218

  Tartar, cream of (Potassi bitartras), 169
    cream of, and sulphur troches
      (Trochisci sulphuris et potassii bitartratis), 215
    emetic (Antimonii et potassii tartras), 30

  Tartaric acid, 14

  Tartrated antimony (Antimonii et Potassii tartras), 30

  Tasteless tincture of ferri chloride (Tinctura ferri citro-chloridi),
    87
    tincture of iron (Tinctura ferri citro-chloridi), 87

  Tea, breast (Species pectorales), 22

  Teaberry, oil (Methylis salicylas), 133

  Teel oil (Oleum sesami), 147

  Terebene, 218

  Terebinthina, 218
    laricis, 218

  Terpin hydrate, 218
    hydrate and codeine elixir, 68
    hydrate and diacetylmorphine elixir, 78
    hydrate elixir, 218

  Terra silicea purificata, 219

  Tetanus antitoxic globulins (Serum antitetanicum purificatum), 196
    antitoxin (Serum antitetanicum), 196
    antitoxin, concentrated (Serum antitetanicum purificatum), 196
    antitoxin, dried (Serum antitetanicum siccum), 197
    antitoxin, refined and concentrated
      (Serum antitetanicum purificatum), 196

  Texas snakeroot (Serpentaria), 195

  Theine (Caffeina), 45

  Theobroma, oil, 148

  Theocin (Theophyllina), 219

  Theophylline, 219

  Theobromine sodio-salicylate, 219

  Thompson's solution of phosphorus (Liquor phosphori), 161

  Thomsonian number six (Tinctura capsici et myrrhae), 55

  Thoroughwort (Eupatorium), 84

  Three bromides elixir, 26

  Thuja, 219
    fluidextract, 220

  Thyme, 220
    fluidextract, 220
    oil, 148

  Thymol, 220
    iodide, 220
    spray, 220

  Thyroid glands, desiccated (Thyroideum siccum), 220

  Thyroids, dried, 220

  Tinctura
      See also under Tincture
    amara, 100
    aurantii amari, 36
    aurantii dulcis, 37
    cinchonae composita, 65
    coto (Tinctura paracoto), 154
    croci, 76
    delphinii, 78
    ferri malatis crudi (Tinctura ferri pomata), 90
    ferri pomata, 90
    gallae, 98
    humuli, 108
    limonis corticis, 124
    moschi, 135
    pectoralis, 152
    persionis, 157
    persionis composita, 157
    pimpinellae, 164
    rhei, 184
    rhei aquosa, 184
    rhei aromatica, 184
    rhei dulcis, 185
    rhei et gentianae, 185
    rhei vinosa (Vinum rhei compositum), 185
    sabal et santali, 187
    saponis viridis composita, 190
    zingiberis, 232

  Tincturae aethereae, 221
    herbarum recentium (Tincturae medicamentorum recentium), 221
    medicamentorum recentium, 221

  Tincture, antiperiodic (Tinctura antiperiodica), 177
    antiperiodic, without aloes, 178
    aromatic, 66
    Bestuscheff's (Tinctura ferri chloridi aetherea), 87
    bitter, 100
    of aconite, 15
    of aloes, 21
    of aloes and myrrh, 21
    of arnica, 33
    of asafetida, 34
    of belladonna leaves, 38
    of benzoin, 39
    of benzoin, compound, 39
    of bitter orange peel, 36
    of bloodroot (Tinctura sanguinariae), 189
    of bryonia, 44
    of cactus grandiflorus, 45
    of calabar bean (Tinctura physostigmatis), 162
    of calendula, 51
    of calumba, 51
    of cannabis, 54
    of cantharides, 55
    of capsicum, 55
    of capsicum and myrrh, 55
    of caramel, 55
    of cardamon, 56
    of cardamon, compound, 56
    of cimicifuga, 64
    of cinchona, 65
    of cinchona, compound, 65
    of cinnamon, 66
    of cocculus indicus, 67
    of colchicum seed, 70
    of crude malate of iron (Tinctura ferri pomata), 90
    of cubeb, 76
    of cudbear, 157
    of cudbear, compound, 157
    of digitalis, 79
    of Dover's powder (Tinctura ipecacuanhae et opii), 152
    of ergot, ammoniated, 82
    of ferrated extract of apples, 90
    of ferric chloride, 86
    of ferric chloride, ethereal, 87
    of ferric chloride, tasteless (Tinctura ferri citro-chloridi), 87
    of ferric citro-chloride, 87
    of ferric citro-chloride with gentian (Elixir gentianae et ferri),
      87
    of gambir, compound, 98
    of gelsemium, 99
    of gentian, compound, 100
    of ginger, 232
    of golden seal (Tinctura hydrastis), 114
    of green soap (Linimentum saponis mollis), 190
    of guaiac, 105
    of guaiac, ammoniated, 105
    of guaiac, compound, 105
    of guaiac, Dewees' (Tinctura guaiaci composita), 105
    of henbane (Tinctura hyoscyami), 115
    of hops, 108
    of hydrastis, 114
    of hyoscyamus, 115
    of ignatia, 116
    of iodine, 118
    of iodine, Churchill's (Tinctura iodi fortior), 119
    of iodine, decolorized, 118
    of iodine, stronger, 119
    of ipecac and opium, 152
    of iron, tasteless (Tinctura ferri citro-chloridi), 87
    of jalap, 120
    of jalap, compound, 120
    of jamaica ginger (Tinctura zingiberis), 232
    of kino, 122
    of kino and opium, compound, 122
    of kino, compound (Tinctura kino et opii composita), 122
    of krameria, 123
    of lactucarium, 124
    of larkspur, 78
    of lavender, compound, 142
    of lemon peel, 124
    of lobelia, 127
    of musk, 135
    of myrrh, 136
    of nutgall, 98
    of nux vomica, 137
    of opium, 152
    of opium, camphorated, 152
    of opium, deodorized, 152
    of opium with saffron, 152
    of pale catechu, compound (Tinctura gambir composita), 98
    of paracoto, 154
    of passion flower, 155
    of pellitory (Tinctura pyrethri), 175
    of pimpinella, 164
    of physostigma, 162
    of pulsatilla, 175
    of pyrethrum, 175
    of quassia, 176
    of quillaja, 177
    of rhubarb, 184
    of rhubarb and gentian, 185
    of rhubarb, aqueous, 184
    of rhubarb, aromatic, 184
    of rhubarb, sweet, 185
    of saffron, 76
    of sanguinaria, 189
    of saw palmetto and santal, 187
    of serpentaria, 195
    of squill, 192
    of stramonium, 210
    of strophanthus, 211
    of sumbul, 216
    of sweet orange peel, 37
    of tolu, 38
    of valerian, 224
    of valerian, ammoniated, 224
    of vanilla, 224
    of veratrum viride, 225
    of viburnum, compound, 226
    of zedoary, bitter, 228
    of zedoary, compound (Tinctura zedoariae amara), 228
    pectoral, 152
    stomachic (Tinctura amara), 100
    Warburg's (Tinctura antiperiodica), 177
    Warburg's, without aloes (Tinctura antiperiodica sine aloe), 178

  Tinctures, 221
    ethereal, 221
    of fresh drugs, 221

  Tobacco, Indian (Lobelia), 126

  Tolu balsam (Balsamum Tolutanum), 37
    syrup, 37
    tincture, 38

  Tonquin musk (Moschus), 135

  Toxitabellae, 221
    hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi, 109

  Tragacanth, 221
    glycerite, 221
    mucilage, 221

  Trichloracetic acid, 14
    fluidextract, 222

  Trillium, 222
    fluidextract, 222

  Trinitrin (Glycerylis nitras), 101

  Trinitrophenol, 222

  Trional (Sulphonethylmethanum), 214

  Trioxymethylene (paraformaldehydum), 154

  Triplex pills (Pilulae aloes, hydrargyri et podophylli), 21
    Francis' (Pilulae aloes, hydrargyri et scammonii compositae), 21

  Triticum, 222
    fluidextract, 222

  Trituration of elaterin, 81

  Triturations, 222

  Troches, 223
    of ammonium chloride, 27
    of charcoal, 56
    of cubeb, 76
    of elm, 223
    of gambir, 99
    of peppermint, 143
    of phenolphthalein, 160
    of potassium chlorate, 171
    of quinine tannate, 181
    of santonin, 189
    of santonin and calomel (Trochisci santonini compositi), 190
    of santonin, compound, 190
    of sodium bicarbonate, 200
    of sulphur and cream of tartar
      (Trochisci sulphuris et potassii bitartratis), 215
    of sulphur and potassium bitartrate, 215
    of tannic acid, 13

  Trochisci, 223
    carbonis ligni, 56
    menthae piperitae, 143
    ulmi, 223

  Turkey corn (Corydalis), 74

  Turnera (Damiana), 77

  Turnerae, fluidextractum (Fluidextractum damianae), 77

  Turner's cerate (Unguentum calaminae), 46

  Turpentine, 218
    larch (Terebinthina laricis), 218
    liniment, 148
    liniment, acetic, 148
    oil (Oleum Terebinthinae), 147
    oil, emulsion, 148
    oil, rectified (Oleum terebinthinae rectificatum), 147
    petrox, venice (Petroxolinum terebinthinae laricis), 218
    petroxolin, Venice, 218
    spirits (Oleum terebinthinae), 147
    Venice, 218

  Tussilago leaves (Farfara), 85


  Ulmus, 223

  Unguentumi
      See also under Ointment
    creosoti salicylatum extensum (Mulla creosoti salicylata), 12
    fuscum, 53
    gallae, 98
    hydrargyri, 112
    hydrargyri ammoniati, 113
    hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi extensum
      (Mulla hydrargyri chloridi corrosivi), 109
    hydrargyri dilutum, 112
    hydrargyri nitratis, 111
    hydrargyri oxidi flavi, 111
    hydrargyri oxidi rubri, 111
    matris (Unguentum fuscum), 53
    picis compositum, 146
    picis liquidae, 165
    salicylatum extensum (Mulla acidi salicylici), 12
    zinci carbonatis crudi (Unguentum calaminae), 46
    zinci extensum (Mulla zinci), 229
    zinci oxidi, 230
    zinci stearatis, 230

  Unicorn root (Aletris), 19

  Unna pencils (Stili dilubiles), 209

  Unna's soft zinc paste (Pasta zinci mollis), 229
    sulphurated zinc paste (Pasta zinci sulphurata), 230

  Uranium nitrate, 223

  Uranyl nitrate (Uranii nitras), 223

  Urea chloride and quinine (Quininae et ureae hydrochloridum), 178
    hydrochloride and quinine, 178

  Urethane (Aethylis carbamas), 17

  Urisol (Hexamethylenamina), 107

  Uritone (Hexamethylenamina), 107

  Urotropine (Hexamethylenamina), 107

  Uva ursi, 223
    fluidextract, 223


  Vaccine, Jennerian (Virus vaccinicum), 227
    smallpox (Virus vaccinicum), 227
    virus, 227
    virus, glycerinated (Virus vaccinicum), 227

  Valerian, 224
    fluidextract, 224
    tincture, 224
    tincture, ammoniated, 224

  Vallet's mass (Massa ferri carbonatis), 85

  Vanilla, 224
    bean (Vanilla), 224
    tincture, 224

  Vanillin, 224
    elixir, compound, 224
    spirit, compound, 224

  Vegetable cathartic pills, 71

  Venice turpentine, 218
    turpentine petrox (Petroxolinum terebinthinae laricis), 218
    turpentine petroxolin, 218

  Veratria (Veratrina), 225

  Veratrine, 225
    ointment, 225
    oleate, 225

  Veratrum viride, 225
    viride fluidextract, 225
    viride tincture, 225

  Verbasci flores, 225

  Verbena, 226
    fluidextract, 226

  Vermuth (Absinthium), 5

  Vesicating collodion (Collodium cantharidatum), 54

  Viburnum, (Viburnum prunifolium), 227
    opulus, 226
    opulus elixir, compound, 226
    opulus fluidextract, 226
    prunifolium, 227
    prunifolium elixir, 227
    prunifolium extract, 227
    prunifolium extract, powdered (Extractum viburni prunifolii), 227
    prunifolium fluidextract, 227
    tincture, compound, 226

  Vichy salt, artificial, 199
    artificial, effervescent, 200
    with lithium, effervescent artificial, 200

  Villate's mixture (Mistura adstringens), 77

  Vina, 227

  Vinegar, aromatic, 142
    of opium, 149
    of squill, 192

  Vinegars (Aceta), 5

  Vinum
      See also under Wine
    aurantii compositum, 36
    carnis, 56
    carnis et ferri, 57
    fraxini, 97
    picis, 165
    pruni virginianae, 174
    pruni virginianae ferratum, 174
    xericum, 227

  Virginia snakeroot (Serpentaria), 195

  Viride, veratrum, 225

  Virus, vaccine, 227
    vaccine, glycerinated (Virus vaccinicum), 227

  Vleminckx' lotion (Liquor calcis sulphuratae), 51
    solution (Liquor calcis sulphuratae), 51

  Volatile liniment (Linimentum ammoniae), 25
    oil of mustard, 147
    oils, spirits, 208


  Wahoo bark (Euonymus), 84

  Walnut bark, white (Juglans), 120

  Warburg's pills (Pilulae antiperiodicae), 180
    pills without aloes (Pilulae antiperiodicae sine aloe), 180
    tincture (Tinctura antiperiodica), 177
    tincture without aloes (Tinctura antiperiodica sine aloe), 178

  Washed sulphur, 215

  Washes (Lotiones), 127

  Water
      See also under Aqua
    almond, bitter, 137
    ammonia, 24
    ammonia, stronger, 25
    anise, 138
    camphor, 53
    carbolic acid (Aqua phenolata), 159
    chlorine (Liquor chlori compositus), 62
    chloroform, 62
    cinnamon, 140
    creosote, 75
    distilled, 32
    distilled, sterilized, 32
    fennel, 141
    hamamelis, 106
    javelle (Liquor potassae chlorinatae), 167
    lead (Liquor plumbi subacetatis dilutus), 167
    lime (Liquor calcis), 52
    orange flower, 37
    orange flower, stronger, 37
    peppermint, 143
    phenolated, 159
    rose, 185
    rose, ointment of, 186
    rose, stronger, 185
    sedative (Lotio ammoniacalis camphorata), 25
    spearmint, 143
    witch hazel (Aqua hamamelidis), 106

  Waters, aromatic, 32

  White agaric (Agaricus), 18
    arsenic (Arseni trioxidum), 33
    ash bark, 97
    ash, wine, 97
    castile soap (Sapo), 190
    dextrin, 78
    lead (Plumbi carbonas), 166
    mustard, 197
    oak bark (Quercus), 176
    petrolatum, 158
    petroleum jelly (Petrolatum album), 158
    pine bark, 164
    pine syrup, compound, 164
    pine with morphine syrup, compound, 135
    precipitate (Hydrargyrum ammoniatum), 113
    precipitate ointment (Unguentum hydrargyri ammoniati), 113
    sandal wood (Santalum album), 189
    walnut bark (Juglans), 120
    wax, 59

  Wild black cherry (Prunus virginiana), 174
    chamomile (Matricaria), 131
    cherry, 174
    cherry and cod liver oil emulsion, 144
    cherry, fluidextract, 174
    cherry infusion, 174
    cherry syrup, 174
    cherry wine, 174
    cherry wine, ferrated, 174
    ginger (Asarum), 34
    indigo root (baptisia), 38
    yam root (Dioscorea), 79

  Wilkinson's ointment (Unguentum
  sulphuris compositum), 216

  Wine, iron and beef (Vinum carnis et ferri), 57
    of antimony, 30
    of beef, 56
    of beef and iron, 57
    of citrate of iron (Vinum ferri), 88
    of colchicum corm, 69
    of colchicum seed, 70
    of ipecac, 119
    of iron, 88
    of iron, bitter, 88
    of orange, compound, 36
    of pepsin, 157
    of rhubarb, compound, 185
    of tar, 165
    of white ash, 97
    of wild cherry, 174
    of wild cherry, ferrated, 174
    pepsin (Vinum pepsini), 157
    sherry, 227

  Wines, 227

  Wintergreen oil (Methylis salicylas), 133

  Witch hazel (Hamamelis), 106
    extract, distilled (Aqua hamamelidis), 106
    leaves (Hamamelidis folia), 106
    water (Aqua hamamelidis), 106

  Wood charcoal, 55

  Wool fat (Adeps lanae), 15
    fat, hydrous, 16

  Wormseed, American oil (Oleum chenopodii), 140

  Wormwood (Absinthium), 5


  Xanthoxylum, 228
    fluidextract, 228
    fructus, 228


  Yeast, compressed, 60

  Yellow cinchona (Cinchona), 64
    dock (Rumex), 187
    gentian root (Gentiana), 99
    iodide of mercury (Hydrargyri iodidum flavum), 110
    jasmine root (Gelsemium), 99
    jessamine (Gelsemium), 99
    lotion, 111
    mercuric oxide, 111
    mercuric oxide ointment, 111
    mercurous iodide, 110
    mustard (Sinapis alba), 197
    Peruvian bark (Cinchona), 64
    sweet clover (Melilotus), 132
    wash (Lotio flava), 111
    wax, 59

  Yerba santa (Eriodictyon), 83
    elixir, aromatic (Elixir eriodictyi aromaticum), 83
    syrup, aromatic (Syrupus eriodictyi aromaticus), 83


  Zea, 228
    fluidextract, 228

  Zedoary, 228
    tincture, bitter, 228
    tincture, compound (Tinctura zedoariae amara), 228

  Zinc, 231
    acetate, 229
    and aluminum solution, compound, 230
    and iron solution, compound, 231
    carbonate, precipitated, 229
    chloride, 229
    chloride, solution, 229
    glycerogelatin, firm, 229
    glycerogelatin, soft, 229
    mull, 229
    ointment (Unguentum zinci oxidi), 230
    oxide, 229
    oxide ointment, 230
    paste, 229
    paste, Lassar's (Pasta zinci), 229
    paste, soft, 229
    paste, sulphurated, 230
    paste, Unna's soft (Pasta zinci mollis), 229
    paste, Unna's sulphurated (Pasta zinci sulphurata), 230
    phenolsulphonate, 230
    stearate, 230
    stearate ointment, 230
    sulphate, 230
    sulphocarbolate (Zinci phenolsulphonas), 230
    valerate, 231
    valerate elixir, 231
    valerianate (Zinci valeras), 231

  Zingiber, 231




USEFUL DRUGS


A descriptive list of selected drugs, which has been prepared under the
direction and supervision of the Council on Pharmacy and Chemistry of
the American Medical Association.

This list was compiled for the purpose of aiding the movement toward the
elimination of the mass of useless or superfluous drugs now in books on
materia medica. It is particularly fitted to serve as a text for
teachers of materia medica and therapeutics.

Many state medical examining boards are limiting their examinations on
therapeutics to this list of drugs.

In this book the properties--pharmacologic action, therapeutic uses and
dosage, and methods of administration--are briefly but practically
discussed.

Cloth, flexible cover, 4-1/2 by 7-1/2 inches, 176 pages. Price,
postpaid, 60 cents.


AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION
535 North Dearborn Street
CHICAGO






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Epitome of the Pharmacopeia of the
United States and the National Formulary, by A. W. Hewlett and Torald Sollmann and M. I. Wilbert and W. A. Puckner

